This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

Stanford University Libraries 3 6105 124 526 315

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UN LIBRARIES . STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

S

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFOR

TY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSIT

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UN

S

LIBRARIES . STANFORD UNIVERSITY

RARIES

STTAYNFORD

E UNIV IERSITY

L

I

R

D R O F

S R E V I N

A R B I

UNIVERSITY LIBRERIESOF

U

L

S

T NFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES . STANFOR

TY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSIT

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UN

LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVER RD UNIVERSITY LIBRA

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFOR

TY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSIT

ES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFOR

ANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

VERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIV

RARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBR

TY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY

ES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

INFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES . STAI VERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIV

RARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBR

TY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY

S STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFOR

NFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY

SSTAI

BIENIE OBIE

VERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

UNIV

THE
STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, FROM
DECEMBER, 1901 , TO MARCH , 1903 ,
CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF THE TWO HOUSES OF CONGRESS , AND
RECENT TREATIES, CONVENTIONS, AND EXECUTIVE PROCLAMATIONS.
EDITED, PRINTED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS , UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
VOL. XXXII - PART 2 . PRIVATE LAWS , CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ,
TREATIES , AND PROCLAMATIONS.
WASHINGTON : GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE .
1903 .

O O JUR M LOA MD MA UTZ

CONTENTS OF PART TWO.

PRIVATE ACTS OF THE FIRST SESSION OF THE FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS

Page. 1237

PRIVATE ACTS OF THE SECOND SESSION OF THE FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS

1505

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF THE FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS

1763

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS WITH FOREIGN NATIONS

1779

PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES , 1901-1903 ..... 1969

68817

.

PRIVATE LAWS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, PASSED BY
THE FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . 1901-1903 .
1235

PRIVATE ACTS OF THE FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES
Passed at the first session, which was begun and held at the City of Washington, in the District of Columbia, on Monday, the second day of December, 1901, and was adjourned without day on Tuesday, the first day ofJuly, 1902.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President; WILLIAM P. FRYE , President of the Senate pro tempore; on the twenty-second day of May, 1902 , ORVILLE H. PLATT was chosen Aeting President pro tempore; DAVID B. HENDERSON, Speaker of the House of Representatives .

CHAP. 4. -An Act Providing for the free transportation of all mail matter sent by Mrs. Ida S. McKinley.

January 22, 1902. [Private, No. 1.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That all mail matter sent by Ida S. McKinley.
Franking privilege the post by Ida S. McKinley, widow of the late William McKinley, granted to. under her written autograph signature, be conveyed free of postage during her natural life.
Approved, January 22 , 1902 .

CHAP. 8. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Davis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Davis, widow of Charles M. Davis, late of Company B, One hundred and twenty-seventh Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1902 .

February 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 2.]
Mary E. Davis. Pension.

CHAP. 9. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth O. Gould.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth O. Gould, widow of Edward F. Gould , late first lieutenant Company D, Eighth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 5 , 1902 . 1237

February 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 3. ]
Elizabeth O. Gould. Pension increased.

1238

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 10-14. 1902.

February 5, 1902.

CHAP. 10. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen F. M. Edwards.

[Private, No. 4. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

waHredlse. n F. M. Ed States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Helen F. M. Edwards, widow of Francis W. Edwards,

late of Company H, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy
Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 5, 1902 .

February 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 5.]
Josefa T. Philip. Pension increased.

CHAP. 11.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Josefa T. Philip.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Josefa T. Philip, widow of John W. Philip , late rear-admiral, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 5, 1902 .

February 6, 1902.
[Private, No. 6.]
Esther F. Moody. Pension.

CHAP. 12. -An Act Granting a pension to Esther F. Moody.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Esther F. Moody, widow of Convers Moody, late of Company G, Sixteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, February 6 , 1902 .

February 6, 1902.
[Private, No. 7.] 1
Mary A. Lamb. Pension.

CHAP. 13. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Lamb.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and IIouse of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Lamb, helpless and dependent daughter of Thomas Lamb, late of Company I, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 6, 1902 .

February 6, 1902. [Private, No. 8. ]
Michael Dillon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 14. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Dillon.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CS. 14 , 21 , 35 , 36. 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Dillon , late of Company A, Forty- fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 6, 1902.

1239

CHAP. 21. -An Act For the relief of Mary E. McDonald.

February 14, 1902.

[Private, No. 9.}
Be it enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Mary E. McDonald
and Stephen C.
Treasury be, and is hereby , authorized and directed to pay to Mary E. BrPoawynm.ent for fish McDonald and Stephen C. Brown, owners of the McDonald hatching jars invented by Mar-

jar and McDonald universal hatching jar, the sum of one thousand two shall McDonald.

hundred and thirty-four dollars and six cents each, the same to be compensation in full for the use by the United States of all hatching

jars invented by the late Marshall McDonald , and for all rights in said jars now possessed by the said Mary E. McDonald and Stephen C. Brown, and for the right of the United States to hereafter use the

patents on said jars. Mary E. McDonald.
SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and hereby is, author- Payment for fish

ized and directed to pay to Mary E. McDonald, widow of Marshall hatching inventions. McDonald, late Commissioner of Fisheries, the sum of two thousand

five hundred dollars , the same to be compensation in full for the use by the United States of the McDonald egg transportation crate, the McDonald improved cod hatching box, the McDonald hatching bucket,

the McDonald trout can, and of all other inventions of the said Marshall

McDonald, and for their transfer to the United States.

Approved , February 14, 1902 .

CHAP. 35. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard W. Musgrove. February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 10.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Richard W. Mus-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the grove. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased . pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Richard W. Musgrove, late of Company D, Twelfth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and captain Company
1 , First Regiment Infantry, United States Volunteers , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 36. --An Act Granting a pension to Joseph W. Mulford.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and HouseofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph W. Mulford , late acting ensign , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month, to be paid to his legally constituted guardian .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 11.]
JPoesnespiohnW.. Mulford .

1240

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 37-41 . 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 12 ]
John Chandler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 37. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Chandler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Chandler, late of Company F, Second Regi-

ment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27. 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 13. ]
Nathaniel Eaton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 38. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nathaniel Eaton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nathaniel Eaton, late of Company G, Thirteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and captain Company E, Thirty-ninth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 14. ]

CHAP. 39. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eunice P. Detweiler.

Eunice P. Detwei- Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

ler.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eunice P. Detweiler, widow of John S. Detweiler,

late major, Ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay
her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 15. ]

CHAP. 40. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. W. Morgan .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United PMeanrsyioEn..W. Morgan. States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. W. Morgan, widow of Stokely Morgan, late lieutenant -commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension
at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional to the minor child of said Stokely Morgan until said child shall have reached the age of sixteen years.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 16. ]
John McGrath . Pension increased.

CHAP. 41. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John McGrath.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 41-45 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John McGrath, late of Company C, Seventh Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

1241

CHAP. 42. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Fisher.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Fisher, late of Company F, Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27. 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 17.]
Henry Fisher. Pension increased.

CHAP. 43. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel T. Rose.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel T. Rose, late of Company L, Ninth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 18.]
Daniel T. Rose. Pension increased .

CHAP. 44. --An Act Granting a pension to Sarah McCord .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah McCord, widow of Marcus D. L. McCord, late of Captain Terry's company, First Regiment Tennessee Mounted Volunteer Infantry , Cherokee Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 19. ]
Sarah McCord. Pension.

CHAP. 45. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Taylor.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Taylor, widow of Lewis Taylor , late captain Company E, Forty- fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902 [Private, No. 20.]
MPeanrsyioTnayilnocrr.eased .

1242

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 46-50. 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 21.]
Pension increased.

CHAP. 46. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles F. Burger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Burger, late of Company G, Tenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 22. ]
Catharine Moore. Pension.

CHAP. 47.-An Act Granting a pension to Catharine Moore.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catharine Moore, late nurse , Medical Department, United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 48. -An Act Granting a pension to Lucinda W. Cavender.

[Private, No. 23.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

deLru. cinda W. Caven- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension .

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Lucinda W. Cavender, widow of John S. Cavender, late colonel Twenty -ninth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and

brevet brigadier- general United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 49. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel C. Knowles.

[Private, No. 24.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PDaenniseilonC.incKrneoawslede.s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel C. Knowles, late captain, Company D, Forty-

eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 25.] PFernasnicoens iMn.crReeaisleldy..

CHAP. 50. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances M. Reilly.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 50-54. 1902 .
laws, the name of Frances M. Reilly, widow of Henry J. Reilly, late captain Light Battery F, Fifth Regiment United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Henry J. Reilly until they shall reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

1243

CHAP. 51.- An Act For the relief of John Emerson.

February 27 , 1902.

[Private, No. 26. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United John Emerson . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Granted honorable
be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to amend the military discharge.

record of John Emerson , late a private in Company I , Nineteenth Maine Infantry, by removing the charge of desertion from said record and granting him an honorable discharge : Provided, That no pay, bounty , or emolument shall accrue by the passage of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

CHAP. 52. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Gifford Dunbar. February 27, 1902 . [Private, No. 27. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the baHre. nry Gifford DunInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Gifford Dunbar, late of Company I, Seventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 53. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dennis Hannifin .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dennis Hannifin , late second lieutenant Company F, Seventy-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 28. ]
Dennis Hannifin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 54. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Ferguson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Ferguson , late of Thirteenth Battery Massachussetts Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 29.]
John Ferguson. Pension increased.

1244

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 55-59. 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 30. ]
Susan F. Connit. Pension increased.

CHAP. 55. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan F. Connit.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan F. Connit, widow of Horace E. Connit, late major, Twenty-ninth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 56. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Black.

[Private, No. 31. ]
George W. Black. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of George W. Black, late sergeant-major, Twelfth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 32. ]
Mary R. Miller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 57. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary R. Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary R. Miller, widow of William E. Milfer, late colonel Twenty - eighth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 33. ]
George Fowler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 58. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Fowler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Fowler, late of Company K, Ninth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and first lieutenant Company H, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Sharpshooters, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 34. ]
Napoleon B. Per kins.
Pension increased.

CHAP. 59. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Napoleon B. Perkins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 59-63. 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Napoleon B. Perkins, late of Fifth Battery, Maine Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

1245

CHAP. 60. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Pollock.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Pollock, late of Company A, First Battalion Delaware Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 35.]
David Pollock. Pension increased.

CHAP. 61. --An Act Granting a pension to Theophilus Goodwin.

February 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 36. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the wiTnh.eophilus GoodInterior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Theophilus Goodwin, late of Company H, Fifth

Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 62. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry B. Schroeder.

February 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry B. Schroeder, late first lieutenant and captain , Third Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[ Private, No. 37. ]
Henry B. Schroeder. Pension increased

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

CHAP. 63. -An Act Granting a pension to Laura B. Wear.

February 27, 1902 .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Laura B. Wear, widow of David W. Wear, late lieutenant-colonel Forty-fifth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, February 27 , 1902

[Private, No. 38. ]
Laura B. Wear. Pension.

1246

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 64-68 . 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 64. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harrison T. De Long.

[Private, No. 39. ]

Harrison T.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Long.

De States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harrison T. De Long, late of Company I , Thirteenth

Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 40.]
Marcia M. Merritt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 65. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marcia M. Merritt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Marcia M. Merritt, widow of William H. Merritt,

late lieutenant- colonel First Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 66. --An Act Granting a pension to Matilda Armstrong. [Private, No. 41. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PMeantsiilodna.Armstrong. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matilda Armstrong, dependent mother of William A. Armstrong, late of Company E, Fifty-seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 42. ]
Jane Taylor. Pension .

CHAP. 67.-An Act Granting a pension to Jane Taylor.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Jane Taylor, widow of William Taylor, late first lieutenant Company G, One hundredth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 43.]
Caroline N. Allen. Pension.

CHAP. 68. -An Act Granting a pension to Caroline N. Allen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 68-72 . 1902.
laws, the name of Caroline N. Allen , dependent mother of Charles N. Allen, late of Company K, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and hospital steward, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

1247

CHAP. 69. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to A. Curtis Steever Car- February 27, 1902.

penter.

[Private, No. 44.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United A. Curtis Steever
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Carpenter. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of A. Curtis Steever Carpenter, widow of William L.
Carpenter, late captain, Ninth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that
she is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 70. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar Reed.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oscar Reed, late of Company A, Eleventh Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and Company E, Tenth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars a month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
"Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 45. ]
Oscar Reed. Pension increased.

CHAP. 71. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Hymer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Hymer, late captain Company D, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 46.]
Samuel Hymer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 72. --An Act Granting a pension to John E. Farrell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John E. Farrell, late of Thirtieth Unassigned Company, Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[ Private, No. 47.]
John E. Farrell. Pension.

1248

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 73-77. 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 48. ]
Nellie M. Emery. Pension.

CHAP. 73. -An Act Granting a pension to Nellie M. Emery.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nellie M. Emery, widow of George W. Emery, late of Company H, Sixth and Eleventh Regiments New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, February 27 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 49. ]
Elmer L. Stevens. Pension increased.

CHAP. 74. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elmer L. Stevens.
Be it enacted by the Senate and IIouse of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elmer L. Stevens , late of Company G, Tenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 75. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Loren S. Richardson.

[Private, No. 50. ]
soLno. ren S. Richard Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Loren S. Richardson , late of Company H, Second

Regiment United States Sharpshooters, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 76. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Tempy French.

[Private, No. 51.]
Tempy French. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Tempy French, widow of John L. French, late of

Company E, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artil-

lery, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in

lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 52. ]
Lawrentus Lane. Pension increased.

CHAP. 77. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lawrentus Lane.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 77-81. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension. laws, the name of Lawrentus Lane, late of Company A, Seventeenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

1249

CHAP. 78. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leighton J. Folsom.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leighton J. Folsom , late of Company F, Twentieth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 53. ]
Leighton J. Folsom. Pension increased

CHAP. 79. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry S. Comer.

February 27, 1902

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry S. Comer, late of Company E, Fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

[Private, No. 54. ] HPeennsriyonS. iCnocrmeears.ed.

CHAP. 80. - An Act granting a pension to Mary Tripp.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Tripp , widow of Charles M. Tripp, late of the frigate Columbus, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 55.]
MPaenrsyioTnri. pp.

CHAP. 81. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver P. Goodwin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver P. Goodwin, late of Knapp's company of Colonel Easton's battalion Missouri Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 56.]
Oliver P. Goodwin. Pension increased.

Approved, February 27, 1902. VOL XXXII, PT 2- -2

1250

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 82-86. 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 57.]
Cyrus Odell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 82. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cyrus Odell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cyrus Odell , late of Company E, Twenty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 58.]
Charles N. Lee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 83. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles N. Lee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles N. Lee , late first lieutenant Company B, Eleventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 59.]
James Willard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 84. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Willard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws ,the name of James Willard , late assistant surgeon , First Regiment Potomac Home Brigade Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 60.]
Robert M. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 85. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert M. Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert M. Scott, late a private in Company A, Second Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 86. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Thompson.

[Private, No. 61.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

soGne. orge W. Thomp- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 86-90. 1902.
laws, the name of George W. Thompson, late of Company G, Eighteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

1251

CHAP. 87. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David A. Ireland.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David A. Ireland , late captain Company C , Fiftieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 62. ]
David A. Ireland. Pension increased.

CHAP. 88. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martin V. Hathaway.

February 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 63. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Martin V. Hatha-
way. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Martin V. Hathaway, late of Company E, Fortyfourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

CHAP. 89. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph R. Martin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph R. Martin, late of Company E, Twentyfourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 64.] JPoesnespihonR.inMcarreatsiend. .

CHAP. 90. -An Act Granting a pension to Helen L. Pepper.

February 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen L. Pepper, widow of Eason Pepper, late of Company E, Fifty-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 65.] Helen L. Pepper.
Pension.

1252

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 91-95. 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 66. ]
John B. Wilcox. Pension increased.

CHAP. 91. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John B. Wilcox .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John B. Wilcox, late of Company A, One hundred and forty - ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he

is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 67. ]
John C. Morrison . Pension increased .

CHAP. 92. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Morrison.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Morrison, late of Company F, Twentyfourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 93. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. McClure. [Private, No. 68. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PGeenosrigoenWi.ncMrceCalsuedre. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. McClure, late of Company K, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 69. ]
Jeremiah Evans. Pension increased.

CHAP. 94. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jeremiah Evans.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jeremiah Evans, late of Company E, Sixty-first

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 70.]
Ambrose Burton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 95. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ambrose Burton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ambrose Burton, late private in Company , First

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 95-99. 1902 .
Regiment of Kentucky Mounted Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

1253

CHAP. 96. -An Act Granting a pension to Helen M. Evans.

February 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen M. Evans, dependent mother of William F. Evans, late of Company B, Thirty -fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 71. ] Helen M. Evans. Pension.

CHAP. 97. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Uriah S. Karmany.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Uriah S. Karmany, late of Company H, Second Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 72. ]
Uriah S. Karmany. Pension increased.

CHAP. 98. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Rapple.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Rapple, late of Company A , Ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 73. ]
John Rapple. Pension increased.

CHAP. 99. - An Act Granting a pension to Jennie A. McKinley .

February 27, 1902

[Private, No. 74. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Jennie A. McKinStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ley.

Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Jennie A. McKinley, widow of Albert S. McKinley ,

late of Captain Morgan's company of Iowa Mounted Volunteers , war

with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

1254

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 100-103 . 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 100. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew Mulholland. [Private, No. 75.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United laAndn.drew Mulhol- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew Mulholland , late private, Company H, One hundred and tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 101. --An Act To amend an Act entitled " An Act granting an increase of [Private, No. 76. ] pension to Francis M. Thompson, " approved March third , nineteen hundred and one.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
soFnr.ancis M. Thomp- States of America in Congress assembled, That a certain Act entitled
Pension increased . " An Act granting an increase of pension to Francis M. Thompson,' Vol. 31 , p. 1808.
approved March third , nineteen hundred and one, be , and the same is

hereby, amended by striking out the word " sixty, " where the same appears in said Act, and inserting in lieu thereof the words " seventy-

two," so that said Act, after the enacting clause , shall read : " That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed

to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations

Effect.

of the pension laws, the name of Francis M. Thompson, late of Company D, Twenty- first Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventy - two dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
" SEC. 2. That the increase of pension provided for by this amendment shall relate back to and take effect from the date of the passage of said original Act. "

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 77. ]
Thomas V. Stran. Pension increased.

CHAP. 102. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas V. Stran.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas V. Stran, late a corporal of Company A, Second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 103. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Petee.

[Private, No. 78. ]
David Petee. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Petee , late of Company A, One hundred and

eighty- ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 104-108. 1902 .

1255

CHAP. 104. --An Act Granting a pension to Katherine R. A. Ogden.

February 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 79.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Katherine R. A. OgStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the den. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Katherine R. A. Ogden , widow of Charles C. Ogden,

late second lieutenant, Thirteenth Regiment United States Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month .

Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 105. -An Act Granting a pension to Catherine Pflueger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine Pflueger, widow of William Pflueger, late of Company B, One hundred and fifty- fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 80. ]
Catherine Pflueger. Pension.

CHAP. 106. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Church.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Church, late of Company H, Twenty-third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27 , 1902. [Private, No. 81. ]
JPoesnespihonCihnucrrceha.sed.

CHAP. 107. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Smith, late of Company D, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 82. ]
James Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 108. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George B. Boyd.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 83. ]
George B. Boyd. Pension increased .

1256

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 108-112. 1902.
laws, the name of George B. Boyd , late of Company E, One hundred and fourteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 109. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jedediah S. Vallet.

[Private, No. 84. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

JPeednesidoinahinS.crVeaalsleedt.. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jedediah S. Vallet, late of Company C, Seventh Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 110. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary C. Newcomb.

[Private, No. 85. ] PMeanrsyioCn. iNnecwrecaosemdb..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary C. Newcomb, widow of Simon D. Newcomb,

late first lieutenant Company C, Ninety-third Regiment New York

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 86.]
Julia Maher. Pension.

CHAP. 111. -An Act Granting a pension to Julia Maher.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia Maher, widow of Thomas Maher , late of Company K, Fourth United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 112. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Cupps.

[Private, No. 87.]
David Cupps. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of David Cupps, late of Company E , Fourth Regiment

Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 113-117 . 1902.

1257

CHAP. 113.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan M. Pardee.
Be enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan M. Pardee, widow of Henry C. Pardee, late major, Twentieth Regiment Connecticu Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 88. ]
Susan M. Pardee. Pension increased.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

CHAP. 114. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Woodward. February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 89.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
James D. WoodStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ward. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James D. Woodward, late of Company I, First Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now
receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 115. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Kate Virginia Dewey February 27, 1902.

Cushing.

[Private, No. 90.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Virginia
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the DKeawteye Cushing. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kate Virginia Dewey Cushing, widow of Samuel T.
Cushing, late brigadier-general , United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that which she
is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP.116. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas H. McConnaughey. February 27, 1902.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [ Private, No. 91. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the naTuhgohmeays. H. McConInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Penssioonn increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas H. McConnaughey , late of Company M, Fourth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 117. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elisha B. Taylor, alias February 27, 1902.

Elisha T. Bisbee.

[Private, No. 92. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States

of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary of

the Elisha B. Taylor, alias Elisha T. Bisbee.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

1258

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 117-121 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elisha B. Taylor, alias Elisha T. Bisbee, late of Company I, Tenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 118. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Theodore Lane.

[Private, No. 93. ]
Theodore Lane. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Theodore Lane, late of Company A, Twenty- second

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 119. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles E. Bachelder.

[Private, No. 94. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

deCrh. arles E. Bachel- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles E. Bachelder, late of Company A, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902. CHAP. 120. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew H. Gifford.

[Private, No. 95.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

APenndsrieown iHn.crGeiafsfeodr.d . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Andrew H. Gifford , late of Company H, Eighty- first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 121. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram S. Kingsley.

[Private, No. 96.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

PHeinrsaimonSi.nKcirnegasselde.y. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Hiram S. Kingsley , late of Company K, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 122-126.

1259

CHAP. 122.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gustav Schwartz.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gustav Schwartz , late of Company E, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 97. ]
Gustav Schwartz. Pension increased.

CHAP. 123. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emil Frank.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emil Frank, late of Company F, Fifteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 98. ]
Emil Frank. Pension increased.

CHAP. 124. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward B. Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward B. Scott, late of Company F, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 99. ]
Edward B. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 125. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ida R. Siegfried .

February 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida R. Siegfried , widow of Charles A. Siegfried , late medical inspector, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, with two dollars additional on account of the child Margareta M. until she shall have reached the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

[Private, No. 100. ] Ida R. Siegfried. Pension increased.

CHAP. 126. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary F. Hooper.

February 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 101.]
Mary F. Hooper. Pension increased.

1260

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 126-130.
laws , the name of Mary F. Hooper, widow of Quincy A. Hooper, late acting volunteer lieutenant, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 102.]
Samuel Briscoe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 127. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Briscoe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Briscoe , late of Company G , Third Regiment

Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 27 , 1902 .

February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 128. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marshall Bachelder.

[Private, No. 103. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

MPaernsshiaolnliBnaccrheeasledde.r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Marshall Bachelder, late of Company B, Eighth

Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 104. ]
George Patterson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 129. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Patterson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Patterson, late of Company F, Third Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 105. ]
Mabel H. Lazear. Pension.

CHAP. 130. - An Act Granting a pension to Mabel H. Lazear.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mabel H. Lazear, widow of Jesse W. Lazear, late acting assistant and contract surgeon , United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month, and two dollars additional for each of the minor children of the said Jesse W. Lazear until they shall have reached the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 27, 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 131-133 , 135 , 136. 1902.

1261

CHAP. 131. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martha V. Keenan .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha V. Keenan, widow of John F. Keenan , late private, Company D, District of Columbia and Maryland Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 27, 1902 .

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 106. ]
Martha V. Keenan, Pension increased.

CHAP. 132. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Levi Cross.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Levi Cross , late of Company A , Eleventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 27 , 1902.

February 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 107. ]
Levi Cross. Pension increased.

CHAP. 133. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Virginia Terrill.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Virginia Terrill, widow of William M. Terrill , late of Captain Williams's company, Louisiana Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

February 27, 1902. [Private, No. 108. ]
Virginia Terrill. Pension increased.

Approved, February 27, 1902.

CHAP. 135. --An Act For the relief of the trustees of Carson and Newman Col- February 28, 1902.

lege, at Jefferson City, Tennessee.

[Private, No. 109. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Carson and NewStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the man College. Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to the Payment to trustees. trustees of Carson and Newman College , formerly the Mossycreek Baptist College , at Jefferson City, Tennessee, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated , the sum of six thousand dollars , in full compensation for the use, occupation , and consumption of the property of said college and trustees by the military forces of the United States during the late war of the rebellion.
Approved, February 28, 1902 .

CHAP. 136. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles L. Sweatt.

February 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private , No. 110. ] Charles L. Sweatt. Pension increased.

1262

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 136-138 , 148. 1902.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles L. Sweatt, late of Company F, Twelfth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1902.

March 1, 1902. [Private, No. 111. ]

CHAP. 137. - An Act To authorize Commander James M. Miller, United States Navy; Surgeon Oliver D. Norton, United States Navy, and Mr. Edwin V. Morgan, formerly secretary of the Samoan Commission and now secretary of the legation of the United States at Seoul, Korea, to accept presents tendered to them by His Majesty the Emperor of Germany.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

OlJiavemresD. NMo.rtoMni,llEedr-, States of America in Congress assembled, That Commander James M.

win V. Morgan. re- Miller, United States Navy ; Surgeon Oliver D. Norton , United States

ceAiuvtehorized to Navy, and Mr. Edwin V. Morgan, formerly secretary of the Samoan

from German

peror.

Em- Commission and now secretary of the legation of the United States at

Seoul, Korea, be, and they are hereby, authorized to accept, respectively,

a gold watch and chain, a marine glass, and a silver writing table, ten-

dered to them through the Department of State of the United States

by His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King of Prussia ; and the

Department of State is hereby authorized to deliver the testimonials mentioned to them.

Approved, March 1 , 1902 .

March 4, 1902.

CHAP. 138.- An Act For the relief of Mary Chambers, widow of Thomas Cham

[Private, No. 112.] bers.

Mary Chambers. Payment to.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to Mary Chambers, widow of Thomas Chambers, of Mackinac, Michigan , the sum of three thousand six hundred and fifty-four dollars and fifty-six cents , in full compensation for the additional expenses incurred by him in carrying the Canada mails, as contractor on route numbered twenty -four thousand four hundred and thirteen , from Sault de Sainte Marie, Michigan , to Mackinac, Michigan , from July first, eighteen hundred and seventyfive, to June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, inclusive, he having contracted to carry the United States mails only.
Approved, March 4, 1902.

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 148.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mourse R. Adams.

[Private, No. 113.]
Mourse R. Adams. Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mourse R. Adams, late of Company A, Eighth Regi-

ment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 10, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. Cs. 149-153 . 1902 .

1263

CHAP. 149. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henriette Salomon.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henriette Salomon , widow of Frederick Salomon, late brigadier-general , United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 114.]
Henriette Salomon Pension increased.

CHAP. 150. - An Act Granting a pension to Nellie Bartlett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nellie Bartlett, widow of Eli V. Bartlett, junior, late of Company L, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said Eli V. Bartlett, junior, until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, March 10 , 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 115.]
Nellie Bartlett. Pension.

CHAP. 151. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard N. Blodgett.

March 10, 1902.

[Private, No. 116. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Richard N. Blod-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the gett. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Richard N. Blodgett, late of Company A, Sixth

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, March 10 , 1902.

CHAP. 152. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy M. Hill.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucy M. Hill, widow of Charles H. Hill , late of Company C , Fourteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 117.]
Lucy M. Hill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 153. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis C. Killam.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 118.}
Lewis C. Killam. Pension increased.

1264

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 153-157 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis C. Killam , late of Company A, Twenty-fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 10 , 1902.

March 10, 1902. [Private, No. 119.]

CHAP. 154. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Adelaide Worth Bagley.

Adelaide Worth Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Bagley.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Adelaide Worth Bagley, dependent mother of

Worth Bagley, late ensign, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now

receiving .

Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 120.]
Thomas E. Clark. Pension.

CHAP. 155. -An Act Granting a pension to Thomas E. Clark.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas E. Clark, late of Company G, Sixth Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 121.]
Rebecca Dobbins. Pension.

CHAP. 156. -An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca Dobbins.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca Dobbins , widow of Francis Dobbins, late of Company E, Sixty-eighth Regiment Kentucky Enrolled Militia, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 10, 1902 .

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 122. ]
Jonas M. McCoy. Pension increased.

CHAP. 157.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jonas M. McCoy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jonas M. McCoy, late of Company H, Ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 10, 1902.

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 158-162 . 1902.

1265

CHAP. 158.---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wellington D. Curtis.

March 10, 1902.

[Private , No. 123. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the tisW.ellington D. CurInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Wellington D. Curtis, late of Company D, Twentythird Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving. Approved, March 10, 1902 .

CHAP. 159. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin G. Sargent. March 10, 1902.

[Private, No. 124. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled,

That the

Benjamin Secretary of the gent.

G.

Sar-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin G. Sargent, late of Company F, Fiftieth

Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 10 , 1902.

CHAP. 160. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucinda C. Scott.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucinda C. Scott, widow of John Scott , late of Company G, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 125.]
Lucinda C. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 161. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mahale Litton.

March 10, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mahale Litton, mother of Philander D. Litton, late of Company G, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 126. ]
Mahale Litton. Pension increased .

CHAP. 162. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Moses Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -3

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 127. ]
Moses Smith. Pension increased .

1266

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 162-166. 1902 .
laws, the name of Moses Smith, late chaplain Eighth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902 .

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 163. --An Act Granting a pension to Cynthia M. Record.

[Private, No. 128.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

PCeynnstihoina. M. Record. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Cynthia M. Record, helpless and dependent daugh-

ter of Lewis L. Record , late chaplain Twenty-third Regiment Massa-

chusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of

twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 10, 1902 .

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 129.]
Enoch A. White. Pension increased.

CHAP. 164. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Enoch A. White.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Enoch A. White, late of Company K, Twenty -seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902 .

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 130.]
Catherine Meade. Pension.

CHAP. 165. -An Act Granting a pension to Catherine Meade.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine Meade, widow of William Meade , late of the Hospital Corps, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said William Meade until she reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, March 10 , 1902 .

March 10, 1902. [Private, No. 131. ]
Fred F. B. Coffin. Pension increased .

CHAP. 166. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fred F. B. Coffin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fred F. B. Coffin , late captain Company K, Sixtysecond Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 167-171 . 1902.

1267

CHAP. 167. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Etta Scott Mitchell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Etta Scott Mitchell, widow of David D. Mitchell, late captain, Fifteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10 , 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 132.]
Etta Scott Mitchell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 168. -An Act Granting a pension to John M. Core.

March 10, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Core, late of Company I , Eleventh Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

[Private, No. 133. ] John M. Core. Pension.

CHAP. 169. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elvira L. Wilkins.

March 10, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elvira L. Wilkins, widow of Carroll Wilkins, late of
Company C, Fourth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902 .

[Private, No. 134. ] Elvira L. Wilkins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 170. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ziba S. Wood.

March 10, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ziba S. Wood, late of Company D, Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

[Private, No. 135. ]
Ziba S. Wood. Pension increased.

CHAP. 171. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cornelius Springer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 136.]
Cornelius Springer. Pension increased.

1268

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 171-175 . 1902 .
laws, the name of Cornelius Springer, late of Company H, Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10, 1902 .

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 172.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Pauline Lowe Murphy.

[Private, No. 137. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

phPya.uline Lowe Mur States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Pauline Lowe Murphy, widow of William L. Murphy,

late captain , Thirty-ninth Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry,

war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said William L. Murphy until she reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, March 10 , 1902.

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 173. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martha A. Couch.

[Private, No. 138.]

Martha A. Couch.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Martha A. Couch, widow of Calvin P. Couch, late

of Company A, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry ,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 174. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hugh R. Richardson.

[Private, No. 139.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

soHnu. gh R. Richard States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hugh R. Richardson, late captain Company F, Second

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved , March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 175. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rhody Ann Bradshaw.

[Private, No. 140.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
shRahwo.dy Ann Brad States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rhody Ann Bradshaw, widow of Benjamin Bradshaw,

late of Captain Lumsford Loving's company, Virginia Militia, war of

eighteen hundred and twelve , and pay her a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 10, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 176-178 , 184. 1902 .

1269

CHAP. 176. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Minnie E. King.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Minnie E. King, widow of Charles A. E. King, late lieutenant, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty- five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Charles A. E. King until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, March 10, 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 141.]
Minnie E. King. Pension increased.

CHAP. 177. --An Act To confirm title to lot one, square eleven hundred and thirteen, in Washington, District of Columbia.

March 10, 1902. [Private, No. 142.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the DCiosntfricrtmaoftiCoonlutmobJioa-. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to release and hanna C. Block of title quitclaim to Johanna C. Block, her heirs and assigns forever, all the to lot 1 , square 1113.

right, title, and interest, whether legal or equitable, of the United States of America in and to all that lot or parcel of ground situated in

the city of Washington, District of Columbia , and known on the ground

plan of said city as lot numbered one, in square eleven hundred and thirteen, upon the payment by the said Johanna C. Block of such a sum as the said Secretary of the Interior shall deem just and equitable : Provided, That the said Johanna C. Block pay to the proper officer of the District of Columbia all taxes heretofore assessed against said

Proviso. Taxes.

property, both general and special, now unpaid and standing against said property.

Approved, March 10, 1902.

CHAP. 178. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William S. Derby.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William S. Derby, late of Company A, Sixty- first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 10 , 1902.

March 10, 1902.
[Private, No. 143.]
William S. Derby. Pension increased.

CHAP. 184.-An Act Granting a pension to Lura B. Rogers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lura B. Rogers , widow of Benjamin A. Rogers , late captain Company M, Second Regiment South Carolina Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 144.]
Lura B. Rogers. Pension.

1270

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 185-189 . 1902.

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 145.]
Catherine Conroy. Pension.

CHAP. 185. -- An Act Granting a pension to Catherine Conroy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine Conroy, widow of John Conroy, late of Company C, Fourth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 146.]
George H. Morton. Pension.

CHAP. 186. -- An Act Granting a pension to George H. Morton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Morton , late of Company H, First Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 147.]
Mary T. Bruce. Pension increased.

CHAP. 187. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary T. Bruce.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary T. Bruce, widow of Amos J. Bruce , late first lieutenant, Twelfth Regiment United States Infantry, war of eighteen hundred and twelve, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 188. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry N. Tracy.

[Private, No. 148. ]
Henry N. Tracy. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry N. Tracy, late of Company F, Ninth Regi-

ment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 149.]
Silas H. Cronk. Pension.

CHAP. 189. - An Act Granting a pension to Silas H. Cronk.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 189-193 . 1902 .
laws, the name of Silas H. Cronk, late of Company B, One hundred and fiftieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

1271

CHAP. 190. --An Act Granting a pension to Lizzie A. Campbell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lizzie A. Campbell, widow of Thomas D. Campbell, late of Company K, One hundred and eighty- fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 150. ]
Lizzie A. Campbell . Pension.

CHAP. 191. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram Cronk.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram Cronk, late of Captain Edmund Fuller's company, New York Volunteers, war of eighteen hundred and twelve, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 151. ]
Hiram Cronk. Pension increased.

CHAP. 192. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Penrose W. Reagan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Penrose W. Reagan, late of Company K, Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 152. ]
Penrose W. Reagan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 193. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William M. Strope.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William M. Strope, late of Company L, Seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 153. ]
William M. Strope. Pension increased.

1272

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 194-198. 1902.

March 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 194. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James A. Edmonds.

[Private, No. 154.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
JPaenmseisonA.inEcdrmeaosnedds. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Edmonds, late of Company H, Eighth

Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 195. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis M. Gilman.

[Private, No. 155.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

FPreannsciiosn iMn.crGeialsmeadn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis M. Gilman , late musician of the Fourth

Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 196. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Morris.

[Private, No. 156.]
James Morris. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Morris , late of Company H, Twenty- sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 197. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James F. Charlesworth.

[Private, No. 157. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
woJratmhe. s F. Charles States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James F. Charlesworth, late lieutenant - colonel

Twenty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 158. ]
Sarah O. Fields. Pension.

CHAP. 198. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah O. Fields.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension. laws, the name of Sarah O. Fields, former wife of Pleasant Fields , late of Company A, Sixty-seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 199-203 . 1902.

1273

CHAP. 199. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Pierce.

March 11, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Pierce, late of Company G, Second Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[Private , No. 159.] William H. Pierce. Pension increased.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 200. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Elderkin.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James D. Elderkin, late fife major, Fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.
[Private , No. 160. ]
James D. Elderkin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 201. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Gagan.

March 11 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Gagan, late of Company B, Twenty- eighth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

[Private, No. 161. ] John Gagan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 202. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Eugas.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Eugas, late of Company F, Fiftieth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 162. ]
William Eugas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 203. -An Act For the relief of Rasmussen and Strehlow.

March 11 , 1902.

[Private, No. 163.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Rasmussen and States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of fifteen thou- Strehlow. sand dollars be, and the same is hereby, appropriated for the relief of Relief of.

Rasmussen and Strehlow, contractors on Government work, on account of damages done to the main Government building at the Pan- Ameri-

can Exposition grounds by the cyclonic storm of September twelfth , nineteen hundred.

Approved, March 11 , 1902.

1274

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 204-208. 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 164. ]
Joel Metz. Pension increased.

CHAP. 204. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joel Metz.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joel Metz, late of Company E, Sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 205.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Brittingham.

[Private, No. 165. ]
haBmen. jamin Britting Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Brittingham, late of Company K, One hundred and seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay

him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 206. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wright H. Auchmoody.

[Private, No. 166.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

moWordiygh. t H. Auch States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Wright H. Auchmoody, late of Company I , Fiftysixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.

CHAP. 207. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis Pearson, alias

James F. Pearston.

[Private, No. 167.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Francis Pearson, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the saltioans. James F. Pear Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis Pearson, alias James F. Pearston , late of
Company E, Third Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay
him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 168. ]
Eva H. McColley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 208. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eva H. McColley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 208-212. 1902 .
laws, the name of Eva H. McColley, widow of Jacob M. McColley , late of Company B, Thirty-third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

1275

CHAP. 209. -An Act Granting a pension to Aaron M. Applegate.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aaron M. Applegate, late pilot United States steamer Baltic of the Mississippi Marine Brigade, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 169.]
Aaron M. Applegate. Pension .

CHAP. 210. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Angeline Murray.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Angeline Murray , widow of John B. Murray, late colonel One hundred and forty-eighth New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902 .

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 170. ]
Angeline Murray. Pension increased.

CHAP. 211. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas W. Robinson.

March 11, 1902.

[Private, No. 171. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soTnh. omas W. Robin-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Thomas W. Robinson , late of Company G, Sixth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 212.-An Act Granting a pension to Thomas Hall.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Hall, late of Company F, Second Regiment Louisiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 172. ]
Thomas Hall. Pension.

1276

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 213-215, 219, 220. 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 173. ]
Aaron C. Badger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 213. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Aaron C. Badger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aaron C. Badger, late of Company A, Fifteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 174.]
William C. Marr. Payment to.

CHAP. 214. -An Act For the relief of William C. Marr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to pay to William C. Marr, of Popham Beach, Sagadahoc County , Maine , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of twenty-five dollars , for his services as first assistant keeper of Seguin Island light, Maine, during the month of July, anno Domini eighteen hundred and sixty-six.
Approved, March 11 , 1902.

March 12, 1902.

CHAP. 215. --An Act Granting a pension to Joshua H. Buckingham .

[Private, No. 175. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

haJmos. hua H. Bucking- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Joshua H. Buckingham, late of Company C , Twenty-

fifth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 12 , 1902.

March 15, 1902.
[Private, No. 176 ]
Charles Hurrle. Payment to.

CHAP. 219. -An Act For the relief of Charles Hurrle.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay Charles Hurrle, late of Troop E, Sixth United States Cavalry, for extra duty as post interpreter at Fort Apache, Arizona , from October twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, to May fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-one, inclusive, at the rate of fifty cents per day, and from May fifth, eighteen hundred and eighty-one, to June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty- one, inclusive, at the rate of seventy - five dollars per month.
Approved, March 15, 1902.

March 17, 1902. [Private, No. 177.]

CHAP. 220.-An Act For the relief of George K. Bowen.

George K. Bowen. Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Granted honorable States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and

discharge.

hereby is, authorized and empowered to revoke and set aside Special

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 220, 225, 226 , 230. 1902 .

1277

Orders, Numbered One hundred and forty-seven, paragraph fifty- seven, War Department, Adjutant-General's Office , dated March twentyseventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, dismissing George K. Bowen, lieutenant-colonel One hundred and eighty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and to cause to be issued to him an honorable discharge as of date March twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-five: Provided, That no bounty, pay, or allowance shall accrue by virtue hereof.
Received by the President, March 5 , 1902.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

[NOTE BY THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE. -The foregoing act having been presented to the President of the United States for his approval, and not having been returned by him to the house of Congress in which it originated within the time prescribed by the Constitution of the United States, has become a law without his approval . ]

CHAP. 225. -An Act For the relief of William C. Dodge.

March 18, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to William C. Dodge, of Washington, District of Columbia, the sum of ten thousand dollars, for a cartridge-loading machine furnished by him to the United States upon an order from the Ordnance Department, and for the use of his invention of the same, and of the patent therefor, dated July seventeenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, and for his improvement in cartridges, patented July fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty -five, and for the infringement of his said patents by the United States ; which said sum of ten thousand dollars shall be in full satisfaction of all
claims for such use and infringements and for the relinquishment of all right to claim any further compensation for the use of the same by the United States.
Approved, March 18, 1902.

[Private, No. 178. ] William C. Dodge.
Payment to.

CHAP. 226. -An Act For the relief of Louis Weber.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That Louis Weber, of Fauquier Springs, Virginia, be, and he is hereby, declared to be entitled to the benefits of the Acts of August fourth and fifth, eighteen hundred and fifty-four, as to reenlistment pay during his last service, from August twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty- four, to July ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven , in the United States Marine Corps.
Approved, March 18 , 1902 .

March 18, 1902.
[Private, No. 179. ]
Louis Weber. Payment to. Vol. 10, pp. 575, 576.

CHAP. 230. --An Act For the relief of James M. Stradling.

March 20, 1902. [Private, No. 180. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United James M. Stradling. States of America in Congress assembled , That James M. Stradling Military record cor
shall be held and considered to have been mustered into the service of rected.

the United States as a second lieutenant of the First Regiment of New

Jersey Cavalry Volunteers on the sixteenth day of September, eighteen

hundred and sixty- four, and that the Secretary of War be, and he is

1278
Proviso. No pay, etc.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 230-234. 1902.
hereby , authorized and directed to issue to him a certificate of discharge as a second lieutenant of said regiment, to date from the sixteenth day of September, eighteen hundred and sixty-four: Provided, That nopay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.
Approved, March 20 , 1902 .

March 20, 1902.

CHAP. 231.-An Act To correct the military record of James L. Proctor.

[Private, No. 181.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

James L. Proctor.

Military record cor- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

rected .

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to grant an honorable

discharge in lieu of the dishonorable discharge heretofore granted to

James L. Proctor, of the county of Kings, State of New York, late a

Proviso. No pay, etc.

private in Company F, Ninetieth Regiment of New York Veteran Volunteers : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, March 20, 1902.

March 20, 1902. [Private, No. 182. ]
J. V. Davis. Payment to .

CHAP. 232. -An Act For the relief of J. V. Davis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to J. V. Davis, superintendent of the Alexandria (Virginia) National Cemetery, the sum of five hundred dollars, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to reimburse him for personal property destroyed by fire, which loss was incurred in his efforts to save the property of the United States.
Approved, March 20, 1902 .

March 20, 1902.
[Private, No. 183. ]
Hugh C. Preston. Credit in accounts.

CHAP. 233. -An Act For the relief of Hugh C. Preston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the accounting officers of the Treasury are hereby authorized and directed , in the settlement of the accounts of Hugh C. Preston, late first lieutenant, Thirty- first Infantry, United States Volunteers, to allow him credit for seven hundred and thirty -seven dollars and three cents , the same being the amount of funds of the United States stolen from his tent at Zamboanga, in the island of Mindanao , Philippine Islands, on or about December thirty-first, nineteen hundred , while he was acting as commissary of subsistence, in accordance with the finding of the board of survey.
Approved, March 20, 1902.

March 20, 1902.

CHAP. 234. - An Act For the relief of Edward Kershner.

[Private, No. 184. ]
Edward Kershner. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United May be appointed States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be , and irentsipreecdtolirsti. n Navy on he is hereby, authorized and empowered to appoint Edward Kershner
as medical inspector in the Navy on the retired list.

Approved, March 20 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 238-242. 1902.

1279

CHAP. 238. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah Bowers.

March 21 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah Bowers, widow of Joseph R. Bowers, late captain Company F, Third Tennessee Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 185. ] Sarah Bowers. Pension.

CHAP. 239. - An Act Granting a pension to Adella C. Chandler.

March 21, 1902.

[Private, No. 186. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the APdeenlsliaonC.. Chandler.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Adella C. Chandler, widow of Bartley M. Chandler,

late of Captain West's company of Tennessee Volunteers , Cherokee

disturbances, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 240. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George C. Leighton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George C. Leighton , late of Company  , First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 187.]
George C. Leighton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 241. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph W. Grant.

March 21 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph W. Grant, late of Company F, Fourteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

[Private , No. 188. ] JPoesnespihonW.inGcrreaanste.d.

CHAP. 242. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Armstrong.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 189. ]
Charles Armstrong. Pension increased .

1280

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 242-246. 1902 .
laws, the name of Charles Armstrong, late of Company L, Third Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21, 1902. [Private, No. 190. ]

CHAP. 243. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard A. Lawrence.

Richard A. Law- Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

rence.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Richard A. Lawrence, late of Company K, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902. [Private, No. 191.]
Samuel M.Graves.

CHAP. 244.- An Act Granting a pension to Samuel M. Graves.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel M. Graves, late of Company G, Tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of

payment, without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902. [Private, No. 192.]
Kephart Wallace. Pension increased.

CHAP. 245. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Kephart Wallace.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kephart Wallace, late of Company M, Nineteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 246.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elmer J. Starkey.

[Private, No. 193.]
Eliner J. Starkey. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elmer J. Starkey, late of Company G, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 247-251 . 1902 .

1281

CHAP. 247. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. House.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. House, late nurse, Medical Department , United States Army, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 194. ]
Mary A. House. Pension.

CHAP. 248. -An Act granting a pension to Benjamin Wylie.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Wylie, late an unassigned private, First Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of ten dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 195.]
Benjamin Wylie. Pension.

CHAP. 249. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William R. Underwood. March 21, 1902.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 196.] William R. Under-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the wood. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William R. Underwood , late of Company L , Eighth Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 250. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias Longman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias Longman , late of Company H, Forty-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 197. ]
Elias Longman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 251.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Wickham .

March 21 , 1902 [Private, No. 198.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Charles H. Wick-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ham Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

VOL XXXII , PT 2-

1282

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 251-255. 1902.
laws , the name of Charles H. Wickham, late of Company H, One hundred and forty second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 199. ]
Thomas Butler. Pension.

CHAP. 252. --An Act Granting a pension to Thomas Butler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place upon the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Butler, late of Company M, Third Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902. [Private, No. 200. ]
Charles H. Baker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 253.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Baker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Charles H. Baker, late of Company E, Twelfth

Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902 .

CHAP. 254. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Harper.

[Private, No. 201.]
James Harper. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Harper, late of Company K, Thirty- sixth

Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 255. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard Fristoe.

[Private, No. 202. ]
Richard Fristoe. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard Fristoe, late of Company G, First Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 256-260. 1902.

1283

CHAP. 256. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Schram.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Schram, late of Company B, Thirty- second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 203. ]
Daniel Schram. Pension increased.

CHAP. 257.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Rheuby.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Rheuby, 'late of Company A, Thirty-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 204. ]
William Rheuby. Pension increased.

CHAP. 258. -An Act Granting a pension to Susan P. Crandall .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan P. Crandall, widow of Henry B. Crandall, late of Company A, First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 205.]
Susan P. Crandall. Pension.

CHAP. 259. An Act Granting an increase of pension to Carleton A Trundy.

March 21, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Carleton A Trundy, late of Company G, Seventh Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and acting master's mate, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

[Private , No. 206. ] Carleton A. Trundy. Pension increased.

CHAP. 260. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph K. Ashby.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph K. Ashby , late private Company E, First

March 21 , 1902. [Private, No. 207. ]
JPoesnseipohnKi.ncArsehabsyed, .

1284

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 260-264 . 1902 .
Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 208. ]
M. Callie Glover. Pension.

CHAP. 261. -An Act Granting a pension to M. Callie Glover.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of M. Callie Glover, widow of Albert D. Glover, late major Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty - five dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 209. ]
Charles A. Sheafe. Pension.

CHAP. 262. -An Act Granting a pension to Charles A. Sheafe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles A. Sheafe, late captain of Company I, Fiftyninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month .
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 210.]
Alice M. Ballou. Pension increased .

CHAP. 263. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alice M. Ballou.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice M. Ballou, widow of Schuyler S. Ballou , late

of Company E, Forty-ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry,

Proviso.

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving : Provided, however, That in the case of the

lifTeoofcochnitlidn.ue during death of the helpless child, Gilbert T. Ballou , on whose account the

pension of Alice M. Ballou is increased, the pension of said Alice M.

Ballou shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from

and after the date of death of said helpless child , Gilbert T. Ballou .

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 211.]
Henry Burns. Pension increased.

CHAP. 264. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Burns.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Burns, late of Company H, Fourteenth Regi-

ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 265-269 . 1902.

1285

CHAP. 265. --An Act Granting a pension to Annie S. Hummel.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie S. Hummel, widow of David Hummel, late captain Company C, One hundred and ninety-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 212. ]
Annie S. Hummel. Pension.

CHAP. 266. --An Act Granting a pension to Harry H. Sieg.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harry H. Sieg, helpless and dependent son of Henry A. Sieg, late of Company F, Ninth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 213.]
Harry H. Sieg. Pension .

CHAP. 267. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mahlon C. Moores.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name Mahlon C. Moores, late first lieutenant Company H, One hundred and eightieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 214. ]
Mahlon C. Moores. Pension increased.

CHAP. 268. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alfred N. Mosier.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alfred N. Mosier, late of Company C, Sixteenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 215. ]
Alfred N. Mosier. Pension increased.

CHAP. 269. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Hunter.

March 21 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 216. ] John S. Hunter. Pension increased .

1286

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 269-271 , 276 , 279. 1902.
laws , the name of John S. Hunter, late of Company M, Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 21, 1902,
[Private, No. 217.]
Narcissa Tait. Pension.

CHAP . 270. -An Act Granting a pension to Narcissa Tait.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Narcissa Tait, widow of Felix Tait, late a private in Captain Green's company, First Texas Mounted Rifles, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 21 , 1902.

March 21, 1902.

CHAP. 271. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anderson Howard.

[Private, No. 218. ] APenndseirosnoninHcroewaaserdd. .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anderson Howard, late of Company D, Palmetto Regiment, South Carolina Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 21 , 1902 .

March 22, 1902.
[Private, No. 219. ]
F. E. Coyne. Credit in account.

CHAP . 276.-An Act For the relief of F. E. Coyne.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Postmaster- General be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to allow on the accounts. of F. E. Coyne , postmaster at Chicago , Illinois, a credit of seventyfour thousand six hundred and ten dollars for postage stamps stolen from said post-office by burglars , October nineteenth- twentieth, nineteen hundred and one.
Approved, March 22, 1902 .

March 27, 1902.

CHAP. 279. -An Act To correct the military record of William T. Pratt.

[Private, No. 220. ]

William T. Pratt.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

Military record cor- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be,

rected .

and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of deser-

tion now standing against the record of William T. Pratt, late a private

of Company A, Fifty- first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and

substitute therefor " died November twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four. "

Approved, March 27, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 280-284. 1902 .

1287

CHAP. 280. -An Act To remove the charge of desertion from the military record March 27, 1902.

of Stephen A. Toops.

[Private, No. 221. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War SCtheaprhgeenoAf.dTeosoerptsi.on be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to remove the charge of removed. desertion now standing on the records against Stephen A. Toops, late private of Company D, Second Regiment of Missouri State Militia Cavalry Volunteers, who absented himself without proper authority July thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and so remained until September nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-two , when he enlisted in Company C, in the Seventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, served faithfully, and was honorably discharged June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five.
Approved , March 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 281. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William J. Wallace.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William J. Wallace , late of Company D, Twentysixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 222. ]
William J. Wallace. Pension increased.

CHAP. 282. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John G. Brower.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That theSecretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John G. Brower, late of Company H, Tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 223.]
John G. Brower. Pension increased .

CHAP. 283. -An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth M. Folds.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth M. Folds, widow of Thomas Folds , late of Captain Wilson's company Georgia Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 224. ]
Elizabeth M. Folds. Pension.

CHAP. 284. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William M. Guy.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 225. ] William M. Guy.
Pension increased.

1288

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 284-288 . 1902. 
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William M. Guy, late of Company C, Sixty- sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay hm a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 226. ]
Isabella Compton. Pension.

CHAP. 285. -An Act Granting a pension to Isabella Compton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isabella Compton , widow of John F. Compton, late of Company E , Eleventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 227.]
John Vale. Pension increased.

CHAP. 286. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Vale.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Vale, late of Company H, Second Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 287. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William K. Hoffman.

[Private, No. 228. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
maWinlliam K. Hoff States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William K. Hoffman, late of Company I, Twenty-

seventh Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 288. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Israel P. Covey.

[Private , No. 229.]
Israel P. Covey. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Israel P. Covey, late of Company B, Forty- fourth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 289-293. 1902.

1289

CHAP. 289. - An Act To correct the military record of C. R. Dickson .

March 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 230. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War C. R. Dickson.
Military record corbe, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to correct the military rected."

record of C. R. Dickson, late private, Company D, First Georgia

Regiment United States Volunteers , by setting aside the finding and sentence of the court-martial of October twenty-seventh, eighteen

hundred and ninety -eight, and issue to him an honorable discharge.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 290.-An Act Granting a pension to S.isan Terry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan Terry, widow of Lewis D. Terry, late of Captain McClintock's Company, Kentucky Home Guards, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 231. ]
Susan Terry. Pension.

CHAP. 291. - An Act Granting a pension to William C. Flowers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William C. Flowers, late acting assistant surgeon , United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 232.]
William C. Flowers Pension.

CHAP. 292. -An Act Granting a pension to Ruth B. Osborne.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ruth B. Osborne, widow of Edwin S. Osborne, late major One hundred and forty- ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 233.]
Ruth B. Osborne. Pension.

CHAP. 293. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John B. Kurth .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John B. Kurth, late of Company I, First Regiment Kansas Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 234. ]
John B. Kurth. Pension increased.

1290

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 294-298 . 1902 .

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 294. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Selden E. Whitcher.

[Private, No. 235.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

SPeelndseinonE.inWchrietacsheedr. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Selden E. Whitcher, late of Company H, Fourteenth

Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 236. ]
Christina Daniels. Pension.

CHAP. 295. -An Act Granting a pension to Christina Daniels.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christina Daniels, mother of Edwin B. Daniels , late of Company G, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 296. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick M. Hahn.

[Private, No. 237.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
PFreendseiroinciknMcr.eHasaehdn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick M. Hahn , late of Company H, Second Regiment California Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 238. ]
Malvina C. Stith. Pension .

CHAP. 297. -An Act Granting a pension to Malvina C. Stith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Malvina C. Stith, widow of Robert Stith , late of Company C, First Regiment United States Dragoons , Indian war, and
pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month. Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 298. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel W. Skinner.

[Private, No. 239.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

SPaenmsuieolnWi.ncSrkeiansende.r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel W. Skinner, late surgeon, Fourth Regiment

Connecticut Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of

thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 299-303. 1902 .

1291

CHAP. 299. - An Act Granting a pension to Lue Emma McJunkin .

March 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 240 ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Lue Emma McStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Junkin. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lue Emma McJunkin, foster mother of Walter C.

Snively, late of Company D, Twelfth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Spain , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 300. - An Act Granting a pension to Kazier Washburn .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kazier Washburn , widow of William Washburn , late of Company E, Fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 241.]
Kazier Washburn. Pension.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 301.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton A. Embick.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Milton A. Embick, late of Company D, Two hundred and ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[ Private, No. 242.]
Milton A. Embick, Pension increased.

CHAP. 302. -An Act Granting a pension to Benjamin F. Draper.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin F. Draper, late of Company H, First Regiment Tennessee Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 243. ]
Benjamin F. Draper. Pension.

CHAP. 303. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Mantach.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 244. ]
James Mantach. Pension increased.

1292

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 303-307 . 1902 .
laws, the name of James Mantach, late of Company B, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 245.1
John Craig. Pension increased.

CHAP. 304. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Craig.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Craig, late lieutenant-colonel One hundred

and forty-seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and
pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 246.]
Frank Seaman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 305. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank Seaman.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank Seaman , late of the First Independent Bat-

tery, Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 306. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jacob D. Caldwell.

[Private, No. 247. ] JPaencsoiboDn. iCnaclrdewaeseldl..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Jacob D. Caldwell, late of Company E, One hun-

dred and thirty- fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28,1902.
[Private, No. 248. ]
Michael Tynan. Pension .

CHAP. 307. -- An Act Granting a pension to Michael Tynan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Tynan , late of Company K , First Regiment United States Dragoons, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 308-312 . 1902 .

1293

CHAP. 308. - An Act Granting a pension to Norris L. Lungren.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Norris L. Lungren, late of Company C, First Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 249.]
Norris L. Lungren. Pension .

CHAP. 309. --An Act Granting a pension to Hester Thomas.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Heste . Thomas, widow of William A. Thomas, late of Company C, Twenty-second Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 250. ]
Hester Thomas. Pension.

CHAP. 310. --An Act Granting a pension to Amanda Jacko.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amanda Jacko, widow of Joseph Jacko , late of Captain Knowlton's Independent Wisconsin Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

[ Private, No. 251.] Amanda Jacko. Pension.

CHAP. 311. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Shafer.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick Shafer, late of Company F, Twentyeighth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 252.] Frederick Shafer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 312. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Chapman .

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Chapman, dependent mother of Lafayette Chapman, late of Company F, Eighty- ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer

[Private, No. 253. ] MPeanrsyioE.n. Chapman.

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved , March 28 , 1902.

1294

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 313-317. 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 254. ]
John S. Lewis. Pension.

CHAP . 313. -An Act Granting a pension to John S. Lewis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Lewis, dependent father of John M. Lewis, late private, Company L, Third Regiment United States Infantry , war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 255. ]
John Garner. Pension increased.

CHAP. 314. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Garner. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Garner, late of Captain Reid's, Story's, and Hamilton's companies of Georgia Volunteers, Creek and Florida Indian

wars, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 315. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances K. Morrison.

[Private, No. 256. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

soFnr. ances K. Morri States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frances K. Morrison , widow of John Morrison,

junior, late first lieutenant , Fourth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said John Morrison, junior, until she reaches the age of sixteen years .

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 257.]
Mary F. Key. Pension increased.

CHAP. 316. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary F. Key.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary F. Key, widow of Richard S. Key, late of

Company D, Palmetto Regiment , South Carolina Volunteer Infantry,

war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars

per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 258.]
Sara B. Andrews. Pension .

CHAP . 317. - An Act Granting a pension to Sara B. Andrews.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 317-321 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sara B. Andrews, widow of George L. Andrews, late colonel Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry and brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

1295

CHAP. 318.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph H. Barnum.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph H. Barnum , late captain Company H, Sixteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 259. ]
Joseph H. Barnum. Pension increased

CHAP. 319. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann Demonbrun.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 260. ] Ann Demonbrun.
Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann Demonbrun , widow of Francis M. Demonbrun ,

late of Company D, Second Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the case of the death of PIrnocvriesaos.e to cease on the helpless child, Sallie Demonbrun, on whose account the pension dcheialtdh. of helpless of Ann Demonbrun is increased, the pension of said Ann Demonbrun shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child .

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 320. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram H. Kingsbury. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 261. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Hiram H. KingsStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the bury. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram H. Kingsbury , late of Company D, Eighth
Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the
rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 321. --An Act Granting a pension to Alexander Beachboard.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 262.] Alexander Beach.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the board.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.
pension roll , subiect to the provisions and limitations of the pension

1296

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 321-325 . 1902.
laws, the name of Alexander Beachboard, late of Company B, Second Regiment North Carolina Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 263. ]
Joseph W. Burch. Pension increased.

CHAP. 322.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph W. Burch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph W. Burch, late major Forty-fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 264. ]
Annie D. Taggart. Pension.

CHAP. 323.-An Act Granting a pension to Annie D. Taggart.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie D. Taggart, widow of William H. Taggart, late surgeon Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and acting assistant surgeon, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 265.]
Kate Pearce Pension.

CHAP. 324. -An Act Granting a pension to Kate Pearce.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kate Pearce, widow of George G. Pearce , late of Company H, Seventy-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and Company A, One hundred and eighty -third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP . 325. -An Act Granting a pension to Frances E. Stebbins.

[Private, No. 266. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PFernasniceosn.E. Stebbins. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and ne is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances E. Stebbins, widow of De Wayne Stebbins, late acting master , United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved , March 28 , 1902 .

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 326-330. 1902.

1297

CHAP. 326.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Israel A. Benner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Israel A. Benner, late of Company A , Seventy-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 267. ] IPsernaseiloAn. iBnecnrneaesre.d.

CHAP. 327.-An Act Granting a pension to Abbie M. Packard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abbie M. Packard, helpless and dependent daughter of Charles Packard, late of Company D, Thirteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and Company K, Thirtieth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 268. ]
Abbie M. Packard. Pension.

CHAP. 328. -- An Act Granting a pension to Charlotte H. Race.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charlotte H. Race, dependent mother of Ashley P. Hawkins, late Company E, Eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per morth.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 269. ] Charlotte H. Race. Pension.

CHAP. 329. -An Act Granting a pension to Abby Clark McNett.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abby Clark McNett, widow of Andrew J. McNett, late lieutenant- colonel One hundred and forty -first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and colonel, United States Army, retired , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

March 28 , 1902.
[Private, No. 270.]
Abby Clark McNett. Pension.

CHAP. 330. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas J. Stowers.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -5

[Private, No. 271. ) Thomas J. Stowers. Pension increased.

1298

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 330-334 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas J. Stowers, late of Company D. One hundred and ninety -ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 272. ]
Adela S. Webster. Pension.

CHAP. 331. - An Act Granting a pension to Adela S. Webster.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Adela S. Webster, widow of Amos Webster, late captain and assistant quartermaster, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 273.]
Lewis W. Moore. Pension increased.

CHAP. 332. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis W. Moore.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis W. Moore, late captain Company G, Fortyninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 333. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles R. Bridgman.

[Private, No. 274. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
maChna.rles R. Bridg States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles R. Bridgman, late second lieutenant Com-

pany E, Thirty-first Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28 , 1902.
[Private, No. 275. ]
Ann Eliza Trout. Pension.

CHAP. 334. -An Act Granting a pension to Ann Eliza Trout.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann Eliza Trout, widow of Samuel Trout , late of Company H, Eighty- eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 335-339 .

1299

CHAP. 335. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cynthia A. McKenny. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 276.]
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the nyCy. nthia A. McKenInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the "Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cynthia A. McKenny, widow of Thomas I. McKenny, late major and aid- de-camp of volunteers and brevet brigadier-general United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirtyfive dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 336. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Samelsberger. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 277.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the geMri. chael SamelsberInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased . pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Samelsberger, late of Company A, Fortyfifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 337. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank J. Clark.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank J. Clark, late of Company D, Fourteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 278.] Frank J. Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 338. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Williamanna E. Lynde. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 279. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ,LyWnidlel. iamanna E. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Williamanna E. Lynde, widow of Frederick M. Lynde, late captain, First Regiment United States Infantry, and pay
her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 339. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennie C. Ruckle.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 280.] Jennie C. Ruckle. Pension increased .

1300

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 339-343. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie C. Ruckle , widow of Nicholas R. Ruckle, late colonel One hundred and forty -eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 340. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cornelia E. Wright.

[Private, No. 281. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

CPoernnseiloina iEn.cWrreaisgehdt. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cornelia E. Wright, widow of Amos D. Wright,

late of Company G, Thirtieth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 282. ] CPaernosliionneiMnicsrcehalseerd..

CHAP. 341. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caroline Mischler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline Mischler, widow of Wendell Mischler, late

musician, Forty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 283. ]
Ella Bailey. Pension.

CHAP. 342. -An Act Granting a pension to Ella Bailey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ella Bailey, helpless and dependent daughter of Joseph Bailey , late captain , Fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and brevet brigadier-general, United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 343. -An Act Granting a pension to Frances Fuller Victor.

[Private, No. 284.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

toFrr. ances Fuller Vic- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances Fuller Victor, widow of Henry C. Victor, late first assistant engineer, United States Navy, and pay her a pension

at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now

receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 344-348 . 1902 .

1301

CHAP. 344. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter C. Monfort.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter C. Monfort, late of Company B, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 285.] Peter C. Monfort. Pension increased.

CHAP. 345. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sidney Leland .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sidney Leland , late of Company G, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902. [ Private, No. 286.] SPiednnseiyonLienlcarneda.sed.

CHAP. 346. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin Taylor.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin Taylor, late of Company H, Sixteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 287.]
Franklin Taylor. Pension increased.

CHAP. 347.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick E. Rogers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name Frederick E. Rogers, late of Company D, Thirteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and second lieutenant Company A, Fifty - fourth Regiment Massachusetts (colored) Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 288. ]
Frederick E. Rogers. Pension increased.

CHAP. 348.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John McGrath.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 289. ]
John McGrath. Pension increased.

1302

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 348-352 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John McGrath, late of Company E, One hundred and fortieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 290.]
Clara A. Penrose.. Pension increased.

CHAP. 349. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clara A. Penrose.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clara A. Penrose, widow of Charles B. Penrose, late major and commissary of subsistence, United States Army , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 291.]
Noah F. Chafee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 350. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Noah F. Chafee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Noah F. Chafee, late assistant surgeon Fourteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 292.]
Sybil F. Hall. Pension increased.

CHAP. 351. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sybil F. Hall.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sybil F. Hall , widow of Edwin G. Hall, late of Com-

pany H, One hundred and fifty -second Regiment New York Volunteer
Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 352. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Burnham.

[Private, No. 293. ] JPoenhsniWon. iBnucrrenahsaemd..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John W. Burnham , late of Company C, Tenth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and first lieutenant Company H,

One hundred and twenty- fifth Regiment United States Colored Vol-

unteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 353-357 . 1902 .

1303

CHAP. 353.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Gregg.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Gregg, late of Company D, Twelfth Regiment Illinois Infantry, and captain Company K, Fifty-eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 294.]
John W. Gregg. Pension increased.

CHAP. 354. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Horatio N. Francis.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Horatio N. Francis, late of Company A, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

[Private , No. 295.] Horatio N. Francis.
Pension increased .

CHAP. 355. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma McLaughlin .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma McLaughlin, widow of James B. McLaughlin, late second lieutenant, Signal Corps, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 296. ]
Emma McLaughlin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 356. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. H. Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. H. Scott, late of Company C, Third Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 297.]
William H. H. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 357. - An Act Granting a pension to Emma R. Pawling.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 298.]
Emma R. Pawling. Pension.

1304

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 357-361 . 1902 .
laws, the name of Emma R. Pawling, widow of George M. Pawling, late of Company K, One hundred and twenty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and Company M, Twenty-first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 299. ]
Peter C. Cleek. Pension increased.

CHAP. 358. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter C. Cleek.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter C. Cleek, late of Company K, Seventh Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 359. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy W. Smith.

[Private, No. 300. ] Lucy W. Smith. Pension increased .

Be it enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucy W. Smith, widow of Thomas C. H. Smith, late colonel First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and brigadiergeneral, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 301. ]
Thomas G. Foster. Pension .

CHAP. 360. -An Act Granting a pension to Thomas G. Foster.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas G. Foster, late of Smead's company, Third Battalion District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 361. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marie J. Smyth .

[ Private , No. 302. ]
Marie J. Smyth. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marie J. Smyth, widow of Thomas S. Smyth , late acting ensign, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 362-366 . 1902.

1305

CHAP. 362. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert D. Scovell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert D. Scovell, late of Company I , Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 303. ]
Albert D. Scovell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 363. -- An Act Granting a pension to Martha R. Osbourn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha R. Osbourn , widow of Francis A. Osbourn, late of Company I , Twentieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and first lieutenant Company H , Sixteenth Regiment Veteran Reserve Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said Francis A. Osbourn until they reach the age of sixteen years .
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 304.]
Martha R. Osbourn. Pension.

CHAP. 364. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Hazelton.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Hazelton , late of Company K, Fifteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

[Private, No. 305. ]
John A. Hazelton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 365. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jacob Barton.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jacob Barton , late of Company I, Fourteenth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, Ninth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

[Private, No. 306.] Jacob Barton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 366. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin B. Delany.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 307. ]
Franklin B. Delany. Pension increased .

1306

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 366-370. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin B. Delany, late of Company I , Thirtyfourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 367. An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth A. Shaw.

[Private, No. 308. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

EPleinzsaiboenthinAc.reSasheadw. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Shaw, widow of Benjamin C. Shaw,

late major Seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry and lieutenantcolonel Sixty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she

is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 309. ]
India Stewart. Pension.

CHAP. 368. - An Act Granting a pension to India Stewart.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of India Stewart , mother of John S. Stewart, late captain Company A, First Regiment Colorado Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 310. ] MPaernsiieoUn. iNnocrrdesatsreodm. .

CHAP. 369. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marie U. Nordstrom .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marie U. Nordstrom, widow of Charles E. Nord-

strom, late of Company E, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Cavalry,

and captain, Tenth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 311.]
Jason Leighton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 370. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jason Leighton .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 370-374. 1902 .
laws, the name of Jason Leighton, late of Company H, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

1307

CHAP. 371. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alice De K. Shattuck.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 312. ]

States of America

in

Congress assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of the Alice tuck.

De

K.

Shat-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice De K. Shattuck, widow of Lucius H. Shattuck,

late hospital steward , United States Army, and pay her a pension at the

rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 372. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph A. Nunez .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph A. Nunez , late major and additional paymaster, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 313. ] JPoesnespihonA.inNcurneaesze.d.

CHAP. 373. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Louise Worden. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 314. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the deMna. ry Louise Wor Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Louise Worden , widow of Charles A. Worden, late captain, Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902.
CHAP. 374. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth K. Prescott. March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 315. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Elizabeth K. PresStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the cott.
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth K. Prescott , widow of William H. Prescott, late captain Company K, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and of Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28, 1902 .

1308

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 375-379. 1902.

March 28, 1902 .
[Private, No. 316.]
Simeon Partridge. Pension.

CHAP. 375. ~An Act Granting a pension to Simeon Partridge.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Simeon Partridge, late of Company B, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 317. ] JPaennseiEo.n Tionmcrpekaisneds..

CHAP. 376. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane E. Tompkins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane E. Tompkins, widow of Charles H. Tompkins, late colonel First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, March 28 , 1902.

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 318. ]
Gilbert P. Howe. Pension .

CHAP. 377. -An Act Granting a pension to Gilbert P. Howe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gilbert P. Howe, late unassigned Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902. [Private, No. 319. ]

CHAP. 378. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph M. Clough.

Joseph M. Clough. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Peasion increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph M. Clough, late lieutenant- colonel Eighteenth

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry and brevet brigadier-

general, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate

of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902
[Private, No. 320. ]
Heber C. Griffin . Pension increased.

CHAP. 379. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Heber C. Griffin .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 379-383 . 1902 .
laws, the name of Heber C. Griffin, late of Company D, Seventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty- six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

1309

CHAP. 380. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie McElheney.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[ Private, No. 321.]
Annie McElheney. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie McElheney, widow of William McElheney, late of Company C, Forty -second Regiment New York Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the case

Proviso. Increase to cease on

of the death of the helpless child, Mary T. McElheney, on whose death of child.

account the pension of Annie McElheney is increased, the pension of said Annie McElheney shall continue only at the rate of twelve dollars

per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child .

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 381. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George M. Emery.

March 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George M. Emery, late of Company D, First Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 322.]
George M. Emery. Pension increased.

CHAP. 382. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ida C. Emery.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida C. Emery, widow of Charles Emery, late captain Company E, Fifty- fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, One hundred and twenty-fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 323. ]
Ida C. Emery. Pension increased.

CHAP. 383. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Van Wormer. March 28, 1902.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 324.] Mary A. Van Wor-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the mer. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

1310 FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 383 , 384, 386, 388 , 389. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Van Wormer, widow of Aaron Van Wormer, late of Company A, Tenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, March 28, 1902.

March 28, 1902.

CHAP. 384.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to George E. Houghton .

[Private, No. 325.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

toGne. orge E. Hough- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George E. Houghton, late of Company F, Fifth

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, March 28 , 1902 .

March 29, 1902. [Private, No. 326. ]

CHAP. 386. - An Act To correct the military record of James A. Somerville.

James A. Somer- Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

ville.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the

recMtieldit. ary record cor- United States is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke the order of December tenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, dismissing James

A. Somerville , second lieutenant of Company K, Fifth Regiment New Jersey Infantry Volunteers, and to cause to be issued to him a certifi-

Proviso. No pay, etc.

cate of discharge as of date December tenth , eighteen hundred and sixty-two: Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, March 29, 1902.

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 327. ]

CHAP. 388. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward M. Kanouse.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United PEednwsairodn iMn.cKreaansoeuds. e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward M. Kanouse, late of the Third Battery Wis-

consin Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 4 , 1902.

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 328. ]

CHAP. 389. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard C. Smith.

Richard C. Smith.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard C. Smith, late of Company H, Thirtyninth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 4, 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 390-394. 1902.

1311

CHAP. 390. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bessie H. Lester.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bessie H. Lester, widow of Charles H. Lester , late lieutenant, Second Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 329.]
Bessie H. Lester. Pension increased.

CHAP. 391 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Ball.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Ball , late of Company A, Seventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 4 , 1902.

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 330. ] Henry Ball. Pension increased.

CHAP. 392.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anna B. McCurley.

April 4, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna B. McCurley, widow of Felix McCurley , late commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, April 4, 1902.

[Private, No. 331.]
Anna B. McCurley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 393. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Aquila Wiley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aquila Wiley , late colonel Forty- first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventytwo dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 332.]
Aquila Wiley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 394.-An Act Granting a pension to James B. Harris.

April 4, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James B. Harris, late of Company K, Twenty- eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Emergency Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month .
Approved, April 4, 1902.

[Private, No. 333. ]
James B. Harris. Pension.

1312

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 395-399. 1902.

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 334.]
Patrick Lee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 395. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Patrick Lee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Patrick Lee, late of Company C, Third Regiment

New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 4, 1902 .

April 4, 1902.

CHAP. 396.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Coates.

[Private, No. 335. ]
John H. Coates. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Coates, late of Companies F and K, Four-

teenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, April 4 , 1902 .

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 336. ]
Lucy B. Bevis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 397.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy B. Bevis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucy B. Bevis , widow of Benjamin F. Bevis, late first lieutenant Company G, Thirty-second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 337. ]
Rollin Tyler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 398.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rollin Tyler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rollin Tyler, late of Company G, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , April 4, 1902 .

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 338. ]
Sarah Maley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 399. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah Maley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 399-403 . 1902.
laws, the name of Sarah Maley, widow of Thomas E. Maley, late first lieutenant and regimental quartermaster Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

1313

CHAP. 400. - An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth W. Simmons.

April 4, 1902 .

[Private, No. 339. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Elizabeth W. Sim
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the mons.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth W. Simmons, widow of Samuel Simmons ,

late of Captain Emerson's company , Virginia Volunteers, war of eighteen hundred and twelve , and pay her a pension at the rate of

twelve dollars per month.

Approved, April 4, 1902.

CHAP. 401. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Almond Delamater.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representaties of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Almond Delamater, late of Company I, One hundred and fiftieth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 340. ]
Almond Delamater. Pension increased.

CHAP. 402. --An Act Granting a pension to Laura G. Weisenburger.

April 4, 1902.

[Private, No. 341. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Laura G. WeisenStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the buLraguerra. G.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Laura G. Weisenburger , widow of John J. Weisen-

burger, late major, First Regiment Washington Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month .

Approved, April 4 , 1902.

CHAP. 403. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Allen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Allen, late of Company B, Twenty-third Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 4, 1902. VOL XXXII , PT 2- -6

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 342.]
William H. Allen. Pension increased.

1314

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. Cs . 404-408 . 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 343. ]
Alice Angel. Pension.

CHAP. 404. --An Act Granting a pension to Alice Angel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice Angel, helpless and dependent daughter of James J. Angel, late of Captain McClelland's Company , Tennessee Volunteers , Cherokee Indian disturbances, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.

CHAP. 405. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James R. McClellen.

[Private, No. 344. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

JPaenmseisoRn.iMnccCrleealsleedn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James R. McClellen, late of Company C, Fifth Regi-

ment United States Cavalry , and Company D, Eighty -eighth Regiment

New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 4 , 1902 .

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 345.]
John M. Howe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 406. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Howe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John M. Howe , late of Company E, Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 4, 1902 .

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 346. ]
LPeanusriaonA.. Van Wye.

CHAP. 407. - An Act Granting a pension to Laura A. Van Wye.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Laura A. Van Wye , the dependent and helpless

daughter of John C. Van Wye, late of Company H , Seventh Regiment

Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve

dollars per month.

Approved, April 4 , 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 347.]
John Y. Corey. Pension.

CHAP. 408. -An Act Granting a pension to John Y. Corey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 408-412 . 1902 .
laws, the name of John Y. Corey, late of Company B, Eighth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

1315

CHAP. 409. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Singley.

April 4, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

[Private, No. 348. ]
Mary E. Singley. Pension increased.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Mary E. Singley, widow of John M. Singley , late

of Company K , Forty-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars_per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, however, That PIrnocvriesaos.e to cease on

in the case of the death of the helpless child, Robert H. C. Singley, death of child.

on whose account the pension of Mary E. Singley is increased, the

pension of said Mary E. Singley shall continue only at the rate of

eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, April 4 , 1902 .

CHAP. 410. --An Act Granting a pension to John W. Meade.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Meade , late of Company A, Fourth Battalion District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 4, 1902.

April 4, 1902.
[Private , No. 349. ]
John W. Meade. Pension.

CHAP. 411. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias M. Haight.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias M. Haight, late of Company I , Eighteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 4 , 1902 .

April 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 350.]
Elias M. Haight. Pension increased.

CHAP. 412. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emily J. Tallman.

April 4 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emily J. Tallman, widow of Charles C. Tallman, late of Company B, Eighteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer

[ Private , No. 351. ] EPemnisliyoJn. iTnaclrleamsaend..

1316

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 412, 413 , 419-421 . 1902.

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per

Proviso. Increase to cease on

month in

lieu

of

that

she

is

now

receiving :

Provided, however,

That in

death of child .

the case of the death of the helpless son, William C. Tallman , on whose

account the pension of Emily J. Tallman is increased, the pension of said Emily J. Tallman shall continue only at the rate of twelve dollars per month from and after the death of said helpless son .

Approved, April 4 , 1902 .

April 4, 1902. [Private, No. 352. ]
David A. Frier. Pension increased.

CHAP. 413. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David A. Frier.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David A. Frier, late of Captain R. B. Turner's company of Florida Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, April 4, 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 419. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert M. McCullough.

[Private, No. 353. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

loRuogbhe. rt M. McCul- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert M. McCullough, late of Company B, Third

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 420.- An Act To correct the military record of John F. Antlitz.

[Private, No. 354. ]

John F. Antlitz.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Military record cor- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

rected.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to correct the military

record of John F. Antlitz , of Company H, First Regiment South Dakota Volunteer Infantry , so that it will show that he was discharged

in consequence of physical disability contracted subsequent to his enlistment, and grant him an honorable discharge of date June twentysecond, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and that he be allowed travel pay and allowances.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 355. ]
JPoesnesipohnB.inAcrrebaasuegdh. .

CHAP. 421. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph B. Arbaugh .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph B. Arbaugh, late of Company K, Fortieth

Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 422-426. 1902.

1317

CHAP. 422. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James P. Burchfield .

April 11 , 1902.

[Private, No. 356. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United James P. BurchStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the field. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James P. Burchfield, late surgeon, Eighty - third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month , in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 423. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Misner.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Misner, late of Company A, Sixth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 357. ]
Charles Misner. Pension increased.

CHAP. 424. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert S. Whittier.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert S. Whittier, late of Company L, Fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 358. ]
Albert S. Whittier. Pension increased.

CHAP. 425. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles W. Thomas.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles W. Thomas, late of Company G, One hundred and eighty-ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902. .

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 359. ]
Charles W. Thomas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 426.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to La Myra V. Kendig.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 360. ]
La Myra V. Kendig. Pension increased .

1318

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 426-430 . 1902.
laws, the name of La Myra V. Kendig, widow of Harry S. Kendig, late of Company A, One hundred and sixty - fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 361. ]
Michael Farrell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 427. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Farrell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Farrell, late of Company K, Eighty-fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 362. ]
Levi H. Winslow. Pension increased.

CHAP. 428. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Levi H. Winslow.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Levi H. Winslow, late of Company A, Twelfth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 429. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen V. Rorer.

[Private, No. 363. ]
Helen V. Rorer. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen V. Rorer, widow of Jonathan T. Rorer, late

captain Company I, One hundred and thirty-eighth Regiment Penn-

sylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 430.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George McDaniel.

[Private, No. 364. ]
George McDaniel. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George McDaniel, late of Company H, One hundred

and forty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him

a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 431-435 . 1902.

1319

CHAP. 431. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Todd.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Todd, late of Captain Northcutt's Company D. First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 365. ]
James Todd, Pension increased.

CHAP. 432. --An Act Granting a pension to Martha A. De Lamater.

April 11, 1902.

[Private, No. 366. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Martha A. De LaStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the mater. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Martha A. De Lamater, widow of Walter De Lama-

ter, late of Company I , Sixth United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said

Walter De Lamater until they shall have reached the age of sixteen

years .

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 433. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac H. Crim.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac H. Crim, late of Company C, Fourteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving,
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 367. ]
Isaac H. Crim. Pension increased.

CHAP. 434. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. Johnson.

April 11, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Johnson, late of Company F, Sixteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , April 11 , 1902 .

[Private, No.368. ]
William G. Johnson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 435. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Mackey.

April 11, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private , No.369. ] William H. Mackey. Pension increased.

1320

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 435-439 . 1902.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Mackey , late of Company D, One hundred and twenty- eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 370. ]
Alice Bozeman. Pension.

CHAP. 436. -An Act Granting a pension to Alice Bozeman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice Bozeman , the helpless and dependent daughter of Phineas L. Bozeman, late of Captain Lawler's company, Illinois Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 437. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William J. Overman.

[Private, No. 371. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United William J. Over- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the man.

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William J. Overman, late of Company A, Thirty-

eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 372. ]
buMrayt. thew C. Med Pension increased.

CHAP. 438. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Matthew C. Medbury.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matthew C. Medbury, late of Company E, Twelfth Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 439. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lorenzo Blackman.

[Private, No. 373. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PLeonrseinozno iBnlcarecaksmeadn. . States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Lorenzo Blackman, late of Company G, Seventysecond Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 440-444.

1321

CHAP. 440. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Bliss.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Bliss, late of Company G, One hundred and forty- fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 374.]
Thomas Bliss. Pension increased .

CHAP. 441. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret Hendry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Hendry, widow of James Hendry, late of Company F, First Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 375.]
Margaret Hendry. Pension increased.

CHAP. 442.- An Act Granting a pension to Mary King.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary King, dependent mother of Michael King, late of Company E , Fourth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 376. ]
Mary King. Pension.

CHAP. 443. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James A. Bramble.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Bramble , late of Company B, Eightieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 377. ]
James A. Bramble. Pension increased .

CHAP. 444. - An Act Granting a pension to Eliza A. Wright.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 378. ]
Eliza A. Wright. Pension.

1322

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 444-448 . 1902 .
laws , the name of Eliza A. Wright, widow of James H. Wright, late of Company E, Eighty-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 379.]
PMeangsgiioen.Helmbold .

CHAP. 445. --An Act Granting a pension to Maggie Helmbold.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maggie Helmbold , widow of John W. Helmbold, late of Company E, Two hundred and thirteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and Company D, One hundred and ninetysecond Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of her minor child until it shall reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 446. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew Y. Transue .

[Private, No. 380. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United APenndsrieown Yi.ncTrreaansseude. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew Y. Transue, late of Company G, Third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a

pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 447. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Reep.

[ Private, No. 381. ]
John Reep . Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Reep, late of Company B, One hundred and fifty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension
at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 448. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Cowgill.

[Private, No. 382. ]
Joseph Cowgill. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Cowgill , late of the First Independent Battery Indiana Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the
rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 449-453 . 1902 .

1323

CHAP. 449. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William R. Armstrong. April 11 , 1902. [Private , No. 383. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United William R. ArmStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the strong . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William R. Armstrong, late of Company F, Tenth
Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 450. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah M. Smith .

April 11, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah M. Smith, widow of Andrew J. Smith, late of Captain Smith's company, Hays ' regiment, Texas Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

[Private , No. 381. ] 
Sarah M. Smith. Pension.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 451.-An Act Granting a pension to Alida Payne.

April 11, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alida Payne , the helpless and dependent daughter of John A. Payne, late of Company E, Thirty- ninth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

[Private, No. 385. ] Alida Payne.
Pension.

CHAP. 452. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David C. Maples.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David C. Maples, late of Company H, Ninth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11, 1902 .

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 386. ]
David C. Maples. Pension increased.

CHAP. 453. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Stone.
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles H. Stone, late of Company H, Fifteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 387. ]
Charles H. Stone. Pension increased.

1324

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . 1. CHS . 454 458. 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 388.]
George Daniels. Pension increased.

CHAP. 454. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Daniels.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Daniels, late of Company A , Eleventh Regi-

ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 389. ]
Emory S. Foster. Pension increased.

CHAP. 455. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emory S. Foster.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emory S. Foster, late major Seventh Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventy-two dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 390. ]
Eliza B. Gamble. Pension.

CHAP. 456. --An Act Granting a pension to Eliza B. Gamble.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza B. Gamble, widow of David C. Gamble , late captain Company E , Sixty-sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 391. ]

CHAP. 457. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nathaniel C. Goodwin.

Nathaniel C. Good- Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

win .

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nathaniel C. Goodwin , late of Company F, Seventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 392. ]
Mary Morgan . Pension increased.

CHAP. 458. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Morgan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Morgan, mother of Algernon Morgan , late of Company C, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 459-463 . 1902.

1325

CHAP. 459. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Torgus Haraldson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Torgus Haraldson, late of Company E, Second Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11, 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 393. ]
Torgus Haraldson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 460. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julius W. Clark.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julius W. Clark, late captain of Company F, Twenty-fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902. [ Private, No. 394. ]
Julius W. Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 461. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ella R. Graham.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ella R. Graham , widow of James Duncan Graham , late commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty -five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved , April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 395.]
Ella R. Graham . Pension increased.

CHAP. 462. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maria Louisa Michie.

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 396. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Maria Louisa States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Michie. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria Louisa Michie, widow of Peter S. Michie ,

late professor at Military Academy, assimilated to rank of colonel ,

United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 463. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Feneran.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Feneran , late of United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 397.]
Thomas Feneran. Pension increased.

1326

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 464-468 . 1902 .

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 398. ]
Kate H. Clements. Pension increased.

CHAP. 464. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Kate H. Clements.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kate H. Clements, widow of Alexander H. Clements, late captain and commissary of subsistence , United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 465. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew J. Freeman.

[Private, No. 399. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
Andrew J. Free- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the man.
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject o the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Andrew J. Freeman, late of Company F, Twentieth
Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate
of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 466. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel M. Howard.

[Private, No. 400. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

SPaenmsuieolnMi.ncHroeawsaerdd. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel M. Howard , late of Companies A and H, Twenty -eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he
is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 467. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eugene J. Oulman.

[Private, No. 401. ] EPeungseinoenJi.nOcruelamseadn..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Eugene J. Oulman , late of Company B, Thirty-

second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 11 , 1902. .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 402. ]
James Lehew. Pension increased.

CHAP. 468. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Lehew.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 468-472. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Lehew, late of Company A, Twenty-eighth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay hm a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

1327

CHAP. 469. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas E. Sauls.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas E. Sauls , late of Company H, Sixth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 403.]
Thomas E. Sauls. Pension increased .

CHAP. 470. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Farne.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Farne, late second lieutenant Company G, Forty - eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 404. ]
George Farne. Pension increased.

CHAP. 471.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Georgie Josephine Walcott. April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 405. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the WaGlecoortgti.e Josephine Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Georgie Josephine Walcott, widow of William H.
Walcott, late captain, Seventeenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of
Proviso. that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death of Rate to be reduced the invalid and dependent son of said Georgie Josephine Walcott the on death of child. pension of the beneficiary under this bill shall be reduced to the rate
of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 472. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Evans.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Evans, late of Company B, Eightyseventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 406. ]
George H. Evans. Pension increased.

1328

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 473-477. 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 407. ]
George W. Myers. Pension increased.

CHAP. 473.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Myers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Myers, late of Company F, Ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 408. ]
John Barnard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 474. --An Act Granting an increase of pension t > John Barnard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Barnard , late of Company B, Brackett's Battalion Minnesota Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 409. ]
Carlin Hamlin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 475. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Carlin Hamlin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Carlin Hamlin , late of Company I , Sixty-third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP . 476. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John G. Hutchinson .

[Private, No. 410. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United soJno. hn G. Hutchin States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John G. Hutchinson , late of Company E, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 411. ]
Margaret Dunn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 477. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret Dunn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and be is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Dunn , widow of Joseph Dunn , late of

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 477-481 . 1902.
Battery E , Third Regiment United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

1329

CHAP. 478. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward Thompson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward Thompson , late of Company B, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and ordnance sergeant, United States Army , war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 412.]
Edward Thompson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 479. --An Act Granting a pension to Oliver Gisborne.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver Gisborne , late of Company H, First Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 413. ]
Oliver Gisborne. Pension.

CHAP. 480. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leroy S. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leroy S. Smith, late of Company A , Sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry and first lieutenant Company G, Fourteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 414.]
Leroy S. Smith . Pension increased.

CHAP . 481. -- An Act Granting a pension to Anna J. Thomas.

April 11, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna J. Thomas, widow of Zachariah E. Thomas, late of Company A, First Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and second lieutenant Company E, Eleventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .
VOL XXXII , PT 2-

[Private , No. 415.] Anna J. Thomas. Pension.

1330

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 482-486 . 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 482. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry M. Taylor.

[Private, No. 416. ]
Henry M. Taylor. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry M. Taylor, late of Company H, Sixteenth

Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 483. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaiah Tufford.

[Private, No. 417. ]
Isaiah Tufford. Pension increased.

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Isaiah Tufford, late of Company H, Twenty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No 418. ]
James E. Dexter. Pension increased .

CHAP. 484.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to James E. Dexter.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. Dexter, late surgeon Fortieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 485.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leander Parmelee.

[Private, No. 419.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United PLeenasnidoenrinPcarremaesleede. . States of America in Congress assembled. That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leander Parmelee, late of Company G, Seventh Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902. [Private, No. 420. ]

CHAP. 486. --An Act Granting a pension to Nadine A. Turchin.

Nadine A. Turchin. Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pension.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nadine A. Turchin, widow of John B. Turchin, late

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 486-490. 1902.
colonel Nineteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry and brigadiergeneral United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

1331

CHAP. 487. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary V. Walker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary V. Walker, widow of William H. Walker, late captain Company H, Twentieth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 421. ]
Mary V. Walker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 488. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah A. Carter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah A. Carter, dependent mother of Joseph S. Carter, late of Captain Cobb's company, Maine State Guards Militia, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 422.]
Sarah A. Carter. Pension.

CHAP. 489.-An Act Granting a pension to Mary Sweeney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Sweeney, widow of Christopher Sweeney, late of Company G, Twentieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 423.]
Mary Sweeney. Pension.

CHAP. 490. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward H. Armstrong . April 11, 1902. [Private, No. 424. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Edward H. ArmStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the strong. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward H. Armstrong, late of Company I, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

1332

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 491-495 . 1902.

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 491. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances Gurley Elderkin.

[Private, No. 425. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United deFrrkainc. es Gurley El- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances Gurley Elderkin, widow of William

Anthony Elderkin , late colonel and assistant commissary-general of subsistence, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of

thirty -five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 492. --An Act Granting a pension to Sarah Frances Taft.

[Private, No. 426.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PSeanrsaihoFnr. ances Taft. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah Frances Taft, widow of Charles Sabin Taft,

late acting assistant surgeon , United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11, 1902.

CHAP. 493. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles W. Foster.

[Private, No. 427. ]
Charles W. Foster. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles W. Foster, late of Company A, First Regi-

ment Maine Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 494. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles C. Dudley.

[Private, No. 428. ] PCehanrslieosn Ci.ncDruedalseedy..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles C. Dudley, late of Company D, Sixth Reg-

iment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 429. ]
John McDonald. Pension increased.

CHAP. 495. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John McDonald .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John McDonald , late of Company E , Ninety seventh

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 495-499 . 1902 .
Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

1333

CHAP. 496. - An Act Granting a pension to John S. Nelson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Nelson, late wagon master, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and Hooker's Division , United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month .

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 430. ]
John S. Nelson. Pension.

Approved, April 11 , 1902 .

CHAP. 497. --An Act Granting a pension to Augusta Turner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augusta Turner, widow of John E. Turner, late of Company C, Fourth Battalion, District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11, 1902.
[Private, No. 431. ]
Augusta Turner. Pension .

CHAP. 498. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martha A. Greenleaf.

April 11 , 1902.

[Private, No. 432. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Martha A. Green-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the leaf. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Martha A. Greenleaf, widow of Richard O. Green-

leaf, late captain Company E, First Regiment New Hampshire Vol-

unteer Infantry, and Company B, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dol-

lars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 11 , 1902.

CHAP. 499. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Myra W. Robinson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Myra W. Robinson , widow of Samuel C. Robinson, late of Company C , Twelfth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 11 , 1902.

April 11 , 1902.
[Private, No. 433. ]
Myra W. Robinson. Pension increased .

1334

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 509-513. 1902 .

April 16, 1902.
[Private, No. 434.]
John S. Raulett. Pension increased.

CHAP. 509. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Raulett.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Raulett, late of the United States steamship Florida, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 16 , 1902.

April 16, 1902.
[Private, No. 435.]
John E. White. Pension increased.

CHAP. 510. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John E. White.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of John E. White, late of Company K, First Regiment

New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902.

April 16, 1902.

CHAP. 511.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Horatio N. Warren .

[Private, No. 436. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
HPoernastiioon Ni.ncWraearsreedn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Horatio N. Warren, late lieutenant-colonel One

hundred and forty -second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry,

and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 437. ]
Dewit C. McCoy. Pension increased.

CHAP. 512. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dewit C. McCoy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dewit C. McCoy, late lieutenant-colonel Eightythird Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , April 16 , 1902.

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 438. ]
Otilia M. Smoot. Pension increased.

CHAP. 513. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Otillia M. Smoot.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 513-517. 1902.
laws, the name of Otillia M. Smoot, widow of George W. Smoot, late acting master's mate, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

1335

CHAP. 514. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward S. Dickinson.

April 16, 1902.

[Private, No. 439.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Edward S. Dickin-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Edward S. Dickinson , late first lieutenant Company

B, Tenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension

at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

CHAP. 515. --An Act Granting a pension to Dennis Dyer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dennis Dyer, late of Company K, One hundred and twenty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 16 , 1902.

April 16, 1902.
[Private, No. 440.]
Dennis Dyer. Pension.

CHAP. 516. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alfred H. Van Vliet.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alfred H. Van Vliet, late first lieutenant and adjutant Eleventh Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, such pension to be paid to his duly constituted guardian.

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 441.]
Alfred H. Van Vliet, Pension increased.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

CHAP. 517.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Kelly.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Kelly, widow of Isaac P. Kelly, late of Company H, Ninety - fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

April 16, 1902.
[Private, No. 442. ]
Mary E. Kelly. Pension increased.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

1336

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 518-522 . 1902.

April 16, 1902.

CHAP. 518. -An Act Granting a pension to Josephine M. Dustin.

[Private, No. 443. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

tiJno. sephine M. Dus States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension .

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Josephine M. Dustin, widow of Miles G. Dustin,

late of Company E, Sixteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902.

CHAP. 519.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Freeman R. E.

[Private, No. 444. ] Chanaberry.

Freeman R.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Chanaberry.

E. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Freeman R. E. Chanaberry, late of Company K,

First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, war with Mexico, and

pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902.
[Private, No. 445.]
Uriah Reams. Pension increased.

CHAP. 520. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Uriah Reams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Uriah Reams, late of Company F, Twelfth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 446.]
William B. Rowe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 521. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William B. Rowe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of William B. Rowe, late of Company A, Ninth Regi-

ment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16 , 1902.

CHAP. 522. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Barbara McDonald .

[Private, No. 447. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
BPaernbsairoan iMnccDreoansaeldd. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 522-526. 1902.

1337

laws, the name of Barbara McDonald, widow of Robert McDonald ,

late of Company D, Eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy

Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving : Provided, however, That in

Proviso. Increase to cease on

the event of the death of Robert McDonald , helpless and dependent death of son.

son of said soldier, the additional pension herein granted shall cease

and determine.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

CHAP. 523. - An Act Granting a pension to John W. Moore.

April 16, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Moore, late of Company K, Eightieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month and such higher rate or rates of pension as he may hereafter show himself to be entitled to under existing pension laws, the same to be paid to him without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved, April 16, 1902.

[Private , No. 448. ] John W. Moore. Pension.

CHAP. 524. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Larzalere.

April 16, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Larzalere, late captain of Companies F and D, Sixty-ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 16 , 1902.

[Private, No. 449. ] William Larzalere.
Pension increased .

CHAP. 525.- An Act Granting a pension to Sarah H. H. Lowe.

April 16, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah H. H. Lowe, widow of William W. Lowe, late colonel Fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, April 16, 1902.

[ Private , No. 450. ]
Sarah H. H. Lowe. Pension.

CHAP. 526. --An Act Granting a pension to Eliza Stewart.

April 16, 1902.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 451. ] Eliza Stewart. Pension .

1338

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 526-529,531 . 1902.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension. laws, the name of Eliza Stewart, widow of Hugh Stewart , late of the
United States steamship Great Western , United States Navy , and pay huPsebnasnidonbetolicveiangs.e if her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month , such pension ,
however, to cease upon proof that the said Hugh Stewart is living.
Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 452. ]
Charles F. Merrill. Pension.

CHAP. 527. --An Act Granting a pension to Charles F. Merrill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Merrill, late an unassigned private , Fourteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 16, 1902.

CHAP . 528. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abraham N. Bradfield.

[Private, No. 453. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
fieAlbdr. aham N. Brad States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Abraham N. Bradfield , late of Company I , Tenth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16, 1902 .

April 16, 1902. [Private, No. 454. ]
John Hollister. Pension increased.

CHAP. 529. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Hollister.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Hollister, late of Company C, Tenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 16 , 1902 .

April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 531. --An Act Granting a pension to Ida S. McKinley.

[Private, No. 455. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Ida S. McKinley.

Pension to widow of States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

late President.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll the name of Ida S. McKinley, widow of William McKinley, late President of the United States, and pay her a pension at the

rate of five thousand dollars per year, from and after the passage of this Act.

Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 532-536 . 1902.

1339

CHAP. 532. -An Act Granting a pension to Christina Heitz.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christina Heitz , widow of Charles Heitz, late of Company I, Third Regiment United States Reserve Corps Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 456.]
Christina Heitz. Pension.

Approved , April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 533. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry F. Benson.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry F. Benson, late of Company B, Twenty -third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

[Private , No. 457.]
Henry F. Benson. Pension increased.

CHAP . 534. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thompson B. Moore.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thompson B. Moore, late private in Captain Barbee's company, Second Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteer Infan-
try, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17 , 1902.

[Private, No. 458. ] TPehnosmiposnoinncB.reMaosoedr.e.

CHAP. 535. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Augustus E. Hodges.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augustus E. Hodges, late of Company F, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 459. ]
Augustus E. Hodges. Pension increased.

CHAP. 536. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin J. Godfrey.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 460. ]
Edwin J. Godfrey. Pension increased.

1340

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 536-540. 1902.
laws, the name of Edwin J. Godfrey, late of Company B, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 537. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas H. H. Gibbs.

[Private, No. 461. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
TPhenosmiaosn Hi.ncHr.eGasiebdbs. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Thomas H. H. Gibbs, late of Company I , Second

Regiment California Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 462. ]
Jacob Golden . Pension.

CHAP. 538. - An Act Granting a pension to Jacob Golden.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jacob Golden, late of Company K, Fifteenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 463. ] PMeanrsgiaornetinMc.reBaosyedd..

CHAP. 539. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret M. Boyd.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret M. Boyd , widow of Sempronius H. Boyd, late colonel Twenty- fourth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902 .

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 464.]
Thomas Young. Pension increased.

CHAP. 540. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Young.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Young , late of Company B, Thirty - eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902 .

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 541-545 . 1902 .

1341

CHAP. 541.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Allen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah E. Allen, widow of Silas F. Allen, late captain Company C, Twenty-ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 465. ]
Sarah E. Allen. Pension increased.

CHAP. 542. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Theophile A. Dauphin. April 17, 1902.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 466. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the phTihne.ophile A. DauInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Theophile A. Dauphin , late of Company K, Eightysixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 17 , 1902.

CHAP. 543. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Erastus C. Moderwell . April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 467. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Erastus C. ModerStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the well. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Erastus C. Moderwell, late major Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventytwo dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 544. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry E. De Marse.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry E. De Marse , late of Company L, Eighteenth Regimen: New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

[ Private, No. 468. ] HPennsriyonE.inDcereMaasresde. .

CHAP. 545. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Berry.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private. No. 469. ] William Berry. Pension increased.

1342

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 545-549.
laws , the name of William Berry, late of Company H, Twelfth Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension. at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 470. ] GPeenosrigoenRi.nCcrheaanseeyd.

CHAP. 546.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George R. Chaney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George R. Chaney, late of Company I, Third Regi-

ment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 471. ]
Nathan W. Snee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 547. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nathan W. Snee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nathan W. Snee, late of Company I , Seventy- sixth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902 .

April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 548. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert L. Ackridge.

[Private, No. 472. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
PReonbseirotnL.inAccrkeraisdedg.e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert L. Ackridge, late of Company D, Thirty-

third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and Company K,

Twenty-sixth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 473.]
Lizzie B. Green. Pension increased.

CHAP. 549. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lizzie B. Green.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lizzie B. Green , widow of John E. Green , late captain Company C, Ninety-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 550-554. 1902 .

1343

CHAP. 550. - An Act Granting a pension to Marion Barnes.
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marion Barnes, widow of Warren P. Barnes , late musician, Twenty-second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 474.]
Marion Barnes. Pension .

CHAP. 551. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Evaline Wilson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Evaline Wilson, widow of Adam Wilson , late of Company K, First Regiment Indiana Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 475.]
Evaline Wilson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 552. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles S. Wilson.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles S. Wilson , late of Company K, Forty- second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 476. ] Charles S. Wilson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 553. -An Act Granting a pension to Clara B. Townsend.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clara B. Townsend, widow of Justus Townsend, late acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 17 , 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 477. ]
Clara B. Townsend. Pension.

CHAP. 554. -An Act Granting a pension to John S. James.

April 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. James, late captain Company D, Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, April 17 , 1902.

[Private, No. 478. ] John S. James. Pension.

1344

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 555-559 . 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 479. ]
Frances E. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 555. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances E. Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances E. Scott, widow of Charles H. Scott, late of Company H, Thirteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902 .

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 480. ] MPeanrsyioEn. iSntcorcekaisnegds..

CHAP. 556. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Stockings.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Stockings, widow of Robert Q. Stockings, late of Company K, Forty -seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

April 17, 1902, [Private, No. 481.]
Mary A. Carlile. Pension.

CHAP. 557.-An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Carlile.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Carlile, widow of Henry C. Carlile, late of Company I , Twenty- fifth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 17 , 1902 .

April 17, 1902.

CHAP. 558. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew B. Spurling.

[Private, No. 482. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PAenndsrieown iB.ncSrpeuarsleidn.g. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew B. Spurling, late lieutenant-colonel Second

Regiment Maine Volunteer Cavalry and brevet brigadier-general of volunteers , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 483.]
Amelia A. Russell, Pension.

CHAP. 559. -An Act Granting a pension to Amelia A Russell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 559-561 , 564, 565. 1902 .
pension roil, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amelia A. Russell , widow of Michael Russell, late first lieutenant Company I, One hundred and sixty-ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, April 17, 1902 .

1345

CHAP. 560. --An Act Granting a pension to Ruth Bartlett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ruth Bartlett, the dependent and helpless daughter of Sylvanus Bartlett, late first lieutenant Company H, Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 484. ]
Ruth Bartlett. Pension.

CHAP. 561. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Culbreath.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Culbreath , late second lieutenant Company L, Palmetto Regiment South Carolina Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 17, 1902.

April 17, 1902. [Private, No. 485.]
Joseph Culbreath. Pension increased.

CHAP. 564. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William C. David.

April 21, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William C. David, late of Company A, Eleventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 486. ] William C. David. Pension increased.

CHAP. 565. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane K. Hill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane K. Hill , widow of Rowland G. Hill, late first lieutenant, Twentieth, and captain, Twenty - fifth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 . VOL XXXII , PT 2- 8

April 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 487.]
Jane K. Hill. Pension increased.

1346

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 566-570. 1902.

April 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 566. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lavalette D. Dickey.

[Private, No. 488. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

LPaevnaslieotntienDc.rDeiacsekdey. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lavalette D. Dickey , widow of Charles J. Dickey, late captain, Twenty-second Regiment United States Infantry, and major, Eighth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now

receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Charles J. Dickey until he reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 489. ]
Charles Ambrook. Pension increased,

CHAP. 567. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Ambrook.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Ambrook, late of Company K, Second Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and first lieutenant Company B, Fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 490. ]
George H. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 568. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Smith, late musician, band, Fifteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21, 1902. [Private, No. 491. ]
Elizabeth Steele. Pension increased.

CHAP. 569. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Steele.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Steele , widow of James Steele , late first lieutenant Company K, First Regiment Nebraska Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902. [Private, No. 492. ]
fieClhda. rles B. Wing Pension increased.

CHAP. 570. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles B. Wingfield.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 570-574. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles B. Wingfield , late of Company A, First Regiment United States Dragoons, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

1347

CHAP. 571. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Wheeler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Wheeler, late captain Company D, Ninetysecond Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 493. ]
William Wheeler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 572. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Hoag.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Hoag, late of Company F, First Regiment New York Volunteer Marine Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 494.]
William Hoag. Pension increased.

CHAP. 573. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter Bittman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Bittman, late of Company P , Sixth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 495.]
Peter Bittman. Pension increased .

CHAP. 574. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma Sophia Harper April 21 , 1902.

Cilley.

[Private, No. 496.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Emma Sophia Har-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the per Cilley. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Emma Sophia Harper Cilley, widow of Clinton A.
Cilley, late major and assistant adjutant- general, United States Volun-
teers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty - five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

1348

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 575-579. 1902.

April 21 , 1902. [Private , No. 497. ]
Susan Hays. Pension increased.

CHAP. 575. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan Hays.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan Hays, widow of John C. Hays, late colonel

First Regiment Texas Mounted Rangers, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21 , 1902.

CHAP . 576. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah Anne Harris.

[Private, No. 498. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

SPaernashioAnn. ne Harris. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Sarah Anne Harris, mother of Theodore F. Harris,

late second lieutenant Company C, Twelfth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21, 1902. [Private, No. 499. ]
John Peterson. Pension increased .

CHAP. 577.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Peterson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Peterson, late of Company E, Forty- seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 21 , 1902.

April 21, 1902. [Private, No. 500.]
Charles Allen. Pension increased.

CHAP. 578. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Allen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Allen , late of Company A, Seventy - third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

April 21 , 1902.

CHAP. 579.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin F. H. Luce.

[Private, No. 501. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
Benjamin F. H. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Luce.
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 579-583. 1902.
laws, the name of Benjamin F. H. Luce, late principal musician Fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

1349

CHAP. 580. - An Act Granting a pension to Susan E. Clark.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan E. Clark, mother of James M. Clark, late of Company B, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Indiana Volur . teer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

April 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 502. ]
Susan E. Clark. Pension.

CHAP. 581. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie E. Brown.

April 21 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie E. Brown, widow of Frederick T. Brown , late chaplain Seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, April 21 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 503. ] Annie E. Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 582. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Otto H. Hasselman .

April 21, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Otto H. Hasselman, late of Company A, One hundred and thirty - second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[Private , No. 504.] Otto H. Hasselman. Pension increased.

Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

CHAP. 583. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albertine Schoenecker. April 21, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 505. ]

States of America

in Congress assembled,

That the

Secretary of the Albertine necker.

Schoe-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albertine Schoenecker, widow of John W. Schoe-

necker, late captain of Company C, Forty-fifth Regiment New York

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

1350 FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 584, 587 , 589-591 . 1902.

April 21 , 1902 .
[Private, No. 506.]
Pheobe L. Peyton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 584. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Pheobe L. Peyton .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Pheobe L. Peyton, widow of Jacob M. Peyton, late of Company C, Ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry , and captain Company I , One hundred and forty-eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 21 , 1902 .

April 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 507. ]
Andrew J. Felt. Pension.

CHAP. 587. -- An Act Granting a pension to Andrew J. Felt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew J. Felt, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, April 23, 1902.

April 25 , 1902.

CHAP. 589. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Jane Faulkner.

[Private, No. 568. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

neMra. ry Jane Faulk States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Jane Faulkner, widow of Josiah Faulkner,

late of Company A, First Regiment Virginia Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 25 , 1902 .

April 25, 1902.
[Private, No. 509. ]
Louise Ward. Pension increased.

CHAP. 590. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louise Ward.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louise Ward, widow of George S. L. Ward, late

captain, Twenty -second Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 25 , 1902 .

April 25, 1902.

CHAP . 591. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel J. Lambden.

[Private, No. 510. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

SPeanmsuieolnJ.inLcarmeabsdeedn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 591 , 593, 597-599. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel J. Lambden, late of Company B, First Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 25 , 1902 .

1351

CHAP. 593.- An Act To remove the charge of desertion standing against the April 26, 1902.

record of Thomas Blackburn .

[Private, No. 511. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Thomas Blackburn . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Military record cor-

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to correct the military rected.

record of Thomas Blackburn, late a member of the Eighty- fifth New

York Infantry Volunteers, and to grant him an honorable discharge as of date May thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty -two , from Company G of said regiment : Provided, That no pay, bounty , or allow-

Proviso. No pay, etc.

ances shall be allowed by reason of this Act.

Approved, April 26 , 1902.

CHAP. 597. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Theodore F. Collins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Theodore F. Collins , late of Company G, Fortyfourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 512.]
Theodore F. Collins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 598. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Thatcher.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Thatcher, late of Company K, Twentysecond Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 513. ]
Thomas Thatcher. Pension increased.

CHAP. 599. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Aaron S. Gatliff.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aaron S. Gatliff, late of Company G, Fourth Regiment Kentucky Mounted Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 514. ]
Aaron S. Gatliff. Pension increased.

1352

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . 1. CHS. 600-604. 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 515. ]

CHAP. 600. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles A. Perkins.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United CPheanrslieosn Ai.ncPreeraksiends. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Charles A. Perkins, late of Company K, Second

Regiment Missouri Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay

him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 601. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Austin.

[Private, No. 516. ]
James Austin. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Austin , late of Company I , Eighth Regiment

Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 517.]
Mary J. Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 602. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary J. Clark.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the general pension laws, the name of Mary J. Clark, widow of William W. Clark, late of Captain Coleman's company, Georgia Mounted Volunteers, Creek Indian war and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 603. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dorothy S. White.

[Private, No. 518. ]
Dorothy S. White. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dorothy S. White, widow of Samuel H. White, late second lieutenant Company G, One hundred and forty-fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 28, 1902 .

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 604. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richmond L. Booker.

[Private, No. 519. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
erR. ichmond L. Book States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 604-608 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richmond L. Booker, late of Company G, Thirtyfirst Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28, 1902.

1353

CHAP. 605. --An Act Granting a pension to Christiana Steiger.

April 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christiana Steiger, widow of John Steiger, late of Battery B, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

[Private , No. 520.] CPhernissitoina.na Steiger.

CHAP. 606. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Findley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Findley, late of Company K, Twenty- first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 28, 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 521. ]
Thomas Findley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 607. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza J. Noble.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza J. Noble, widow of James D. Noble , late assistant surgeon Fifty-first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry and acting assistant surgeon , United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 522. ]
Eliza J. Noble. Pension increased.

CHAP. 608. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William B. Matney .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William B. Matney, late of Company C, Fifth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 523.]
William B. Matney. Pension increased.

1354

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 609-613. 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 524.]

CHAP. 609. -An Act For the relief of Henry Lane.

Henry Lane.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Granted honorable States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of War

discharge .

be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to revoke and set aside

the special orders of the War Department, dated March thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and sixty-three, dismissing from the service , for absence without leave, Henry Lane, late first lieutenant Company F,

Thirtieth Regiment New Jersey Volunteers, to date March first, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, because he was then, and for weeks

before had been , on duty in the field, and to grant him an honorable

discharge as of date April seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-three .

Approved, April 28, 1902.

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 610. - An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Baker, formerly Maggie

Ralston .

[Private, No. 525. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Margaret Baker, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the sftoornm.erly Maggie Ral- Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Margaret Baker, formerly Maggie Ralston , late
nurse, Medical Department, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 611. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Eastin.

[Private, No. 526. ]
William Eastin. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William Eastin, of Company D, Sixty-second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 527.]
John M. Seydel. Pension increased.

CHAP. 612. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Seydel.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Seydel , late of Company G, Forty-seventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28, 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 528.]
Reuben Wellman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 613. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Reuben Wellman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . 1. CHS. 613-617. 1902 .
laws, the name of Reuben Wellman , late of Company G, One hundred and sixtieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , April 28 , 1902 .

1355

CHAP. 614. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mariah J. Anderson .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mariah J. Anderson, widow of John D. Anderson, late of Captain Thomas J. Fripp's company, South Carolina Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 529.]
Mariah J. Anderson. Pension increased .

CHAP. 615. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances T. Anderson .

April 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 530. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in

Congress assembled,

That

the

Secretary

Frances of the son.

T.

Ander-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances T. Anderson , widow of Robert H. Ander-

son, late captain, Ninth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said Robert H. Anderson until they reach the age of sixteen years.

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 616. --An Act Granting a pension to Esther A. C. Hardee.

April 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Esther A. C. Hardee , widow of Lucius A. Hardee, late captain, First Regiment Florida Volunteer Mounted Infantry , Seminole Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dol lars per month.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 531. ] Esther A. C. Hardee. Pension.

CHAP. 617. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert E. Stephens.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert E. Stephens, late of Company K, Sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 532. ]
Robert E. Stephens. Pension increased.

1356

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 618-622. 1902.

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 618. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard P. Nichuals.

[Private , No. 533. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
alsR.ichard P. Nichu- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard P. Nichuals, late of Company C , Seventy-

first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 534.]

CHAP. 619. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Perry H. Alexander.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PenrsriyoHn.iAnlcerxeansedde.r. States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Perry H. Alexander, late of Company G, One hun-

dred and fifteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 620. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Myron C. Burnside.

[Private, No. 535. ]

Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United MPeynrsoinonC.inBcurrenasied.e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Myron C. Burnside , late of Company E, Fortieth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 536. ]
Ida D. Greene. Pension.

CHAP. 621. -An Act Granting a pension to Ida D. Greene.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida D. Greene, widow of Francis E. Greene, late lieutenant-commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Francis E. Greene until they reach the age of sixteen years .
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 537. ]
James Matthews. Pension increased.

CHAP . 622. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Matthews.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 622-626 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Matthews, late of Company M, Ninth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

1357

CHAP. 623. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Zachariah R. Saunders. April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 538.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Zachariah R. SaunStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ddeers. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Zachariah R. Saunders , late of Company C, Second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is
now receiving .
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 624. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Moore.

April 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and HouseofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Moore, late of Company K, One hundred and thirty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , April 28 , 1902 .

[Private , No. 539.] James Moore. Pension increased.

CHAP. 625. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Guinn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Guinn, late of Company H, Seventh Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28, 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 540.]
George W. Guinn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 626. -An Act Granting a pension to James F. P. Johnston.

April 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [ Private , No. 541. ] States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the JPaenmseisonF.. P. Johnston. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James F. P. Johnston, late captain Independent Florida Mounted Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

1358

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. Cs . 627-631 . 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 542. ]
Blanche Duffy. Pension.

CHAP. 627. -An Act Granting a pension to Blanche Duffy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Blanche Duffy, formerly Sister Blanche O'Brien, late a nurse in the hospital of the Sisters of Charity at Saint Louis, Missouri , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 628. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harrison C. Vore.

[Private, No. 543. ]
Harrison C. Vore. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harrison C. Vore, late first lieutenant Company E, Eleventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 544.]
Margaret Hoefer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 629. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret Hoefer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Hoefer, widow of Frederick Hoefer, late of Company C, Thirty- eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 630. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Pettit.

[Private, No. 545. ]
Mary E. Pettit. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Pettit, widow of Gilbert B. Pettit, late

first lieutenant, Company F, One hundred and twentieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 546. ]
John Gaston. Pension increased.

CHAP . 631. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Gaston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 631-635. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Gaston, late of Company G, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

1359

CHAP. 632. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Allen Hockenbury.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Allen Hockenbury, late of Company D, One hundred and forty- third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28, 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 547.]
Allen Hockenbury. Pension increased.

CHAP. 633. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis H. Delony.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension . laws, the name of Lewis H. Delony, late of Company A, Battalion Texas Volunteer Cavalry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28, 1902.

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 548. ]
Lewis H. Delony. Pension increased.

CHAP. 634.- An Act Granting a pension to William E. Gray.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William E. Gray, late of Company M, First Regiment Georgia Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain .
Approved, April 28 , 1902.

April 28, 1902. [Private, No. 549. ]
William E. Gray. Pension .

CHAP. 635.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen May.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stephen May, late of Company E, First Regiment Kentucky Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 550.]
Stephen May. Pension increased.

1360

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 636, 643-645. 1902.

April 28, 1902.

CHAP. 636. -An Act For the relief of George W. King.

[Private, No. 551.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

George W. King. Landpurchasedby,

States of America in Congress assembled,

That the following real estate,

rfoerlfeeaisteudre fornomaccaoluinent to wit, parts of lots two hundred and twenty -eight and two hundred of Patrick Mahon. and twenty-nine, in square twelve hundred and ninety, in the city of

Washington, District of Columbia, described as follows : Beginning

for the same at a point on the east side of Thirty-fourth street eight

feet north of the dividing line between said lots and running thence

south on Thirty-fourth street twenty-four feet; thence east parallel

with T street ninety-six feet to the rear line of said lot ; thence north

with said rear line twenty-four feet, and thence west to the place of

beginning, heretofore purchased and conveyed to George W. King,

Vol. 24, p. 476.

of the city of Washington, District of Columbia, be relieved and exempted from the operation of an Act entitled "An Act to restrict

the ownership of real estate in the Territories to American citizens,"

approved March third , eighteen hundred and eighty-seven , and all

forfeitures incurred by force of said Act, by reason of the alienage of

one Patrick Mahon , a former owner of said real estate, are hereby remitted .

Approved, April 28 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 552. ]
Justus Canfield. Pension increased.

CHAP. 643. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Justus Canfield.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Justus Canfield, late of Company B, Second Regi-

ment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 553.]
John H. Jack. Pension increased.

CHAP. 644 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Jack.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Jack, late of Company E, Eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29, 1902 .

April 29, 1902.

CHAP. 645. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. F. Gilman.

[Private, No. 554. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
MPeanrsyioEn.. F. Gilman. States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Mary E. F. Gilman , widow of Samuel D. ilman, late of the Strafford Guards, New Hampshire Militia, and pay her a

pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 646-650. 1902 .

1361

CHAP. 646. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Milsted.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Milsted , late of Company F, Sixteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 555.] TPhenosmiaosn iMniclsrteeads.ed.

CHAP. 647.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abram O. Kindy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abram O. Kindy, ' ate of Company K, Twelfth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29, 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 556.]
Abram O. Kindy. Pension increased

CHAP. 648. --An Act Granting a pension to Mahala Jane Kuhn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mahala Jane Kuhn, the helpless and dependent daughter of Solomon H. Kuhn, late of Company A, Twenty- fourth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 29, 1902.

April 29, 1902 .
[Private, No. 557.]
Mahala Jane Kuhn Pension.

CHAP. 649. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louis Hahn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louis Hahn, late of Company F, Twenty -eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 558. ]
Louis Hahn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 650. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William J. Simmons.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 559. ]
William J. Simmons. Pension increased .

VOL XXXII , PT 2--9

1362

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 650-654. 1902.
laws, the name of William J. Simmons, late of Company E, Thirtyseventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 560. ]
William Holgate. Pension increased.

CHAP. 651. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Holgate.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Holgate, late of Company E , One hundred and twelfth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 561. ]
George W. Dodge. Pension increased .

CHAP. 652. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Dodge.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Dodge, late of Company G, Forty- ninth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.

CHAP. 653. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Herbert A. Boomhower.

[Private, No. 562. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
hoHweerrb.ert A. Boom- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Herbert A. Boomhower, late of Company D, First Regiment Vermont Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, April 29, 1902.

April 29, 1902.

CHAP. 654. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Russel A. Williams.

[Private, No. 563.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

RPuesnsseilonA.inWcirlelaisaemds. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Russel A. Williams, late of Company F, Twelfth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, April 29 , 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 655-659. 1902 .

1363

CHAP. 655. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elijah E. Harvey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elijah E. Harvey, late captain Company B, Sixth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29, 1902.

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 564.]
Elijah E. Harvey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 656.-An Act Granting a pension to Susan House.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan House, widow of Robert C. House , late of Company A, Twenty-ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 565. ]
Susan House. Pension .

CHAP. 657. --An Act Granting increase of pension to Thomas P. Smith.

April 29, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas P. Smith, late of Company K, Seventyninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

[Private, No.566.] Thomas P. Smith.
Pension increased,

CHAP. 658. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ernest Wagner.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ernest Wagner, late of Company I , Sixth Regiment Massachusetts State Militia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 567. ]
Ernest Wagner, Pension increased.

CHAP. 659. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary L. Dibert.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 568. ]
Mary L. Dibert. Pension.

1364

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 659-663 . 1902 .

laws, the name of Mary L. Dibert, dependent mother of Isaac N. Dibert, late of Company D, One hundred and forty-second Regiment

Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of

Proviso. To cease

if son be

twelve dollars per month:

Provided,

That the pension granted herein

living .

shall cease and determine upon proof that said Isaac N. Dibert is

living.

Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 569. ]
Mary E. S. Hays. Pension.

CHAP. 660. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. S. Hays.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. S. Hays, widow of David S. Hays, late surgeon, One hundred and tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month .
Approved, April 29, 1902 .

April 29, 1902.

CHAP. 661. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Ann E. Sperry

[Private, No. 570.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

MPeanrsyiAonnninEc.rSepaesredry. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Ann E. Sperry, widow of John J. Sperry. late lieutenant- colonel One hundred and sixth Regiment Pennsylvania

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 571. ]
Mary E. Holden . Pension .

CHAP. 662. -- An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Holden.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Holden, widow of John W. Holden, late of Company B, Twelfth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 572. ]
John L. Bowman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 663. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John L. Bowman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John L. Bowman, late of Company D , Second

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 663-667 . 1902 .
Regiment Kentucky Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, April 29 , 1902.

1365

CHAP. 664. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Pauline M. Roberts.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Pauline M. Roberts, widow of Samuel Roberts , late major, Seventy-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the officer until such child shall have arrived at the age of sixteen years, in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 573.]
Pauline M. Roberts. Pension increased.

CHAP. 665. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. Gray.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Gray, late of Captain Daniel's company, Georgia Volunteers, Cherokee Indian disturbances, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 574.]
William G. Gray. Pension increased.

CHAP. 666. --An Act Granting a pension to Irenia C. Hill.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Irenia C. Hill , dependent mother of James T. Hill , late of Company M, Forty-fifth Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 29, 1902.

April 29, 1902.
[Private, No. 575. ]
Irenia C. Hill. Pension.

CHAP. 667. -An Act Granting a pension to Minnie M. Rice.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Minnie M. Rice, the helpless and dependent daughter of Robert H. Rice, late of Company I , Eighty-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 29 , 1902.

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 576.]
Minnie M. Rice. Pension.

1366

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 668 , 673 , 676-678 . 1902.

April 29, 1902. [Private, No. 577.]
M. C. Rogers . Pension.

CHAP. 668. -An Act Granting a pension to M. C. Rogers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of M. C. Rogers, late a guide, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, April 29 , 1902 .

April 30, 1902.

CHAP. 673. -An Act To correct the military record of Calvin A. Rice.

[Private, No. 578. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
Calvin A. Rice. Granted honorable States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

discharge.

is hereby authorized and directed to correct the military record of

Calvin A. Rice , late captain Company G, Seventy - seventh New York Volunteer Infantry, and issue to him an honorable discharge from said

regiment, as of January eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty- three.

Approved, April 30, 1902.

May 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 676. --An Act To restore to the active list of the Navy the name of James

[Private , No. 579.] G. Field.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

James G. Field.

Restored to active States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the

list of Navy.

United States be, and he is hereby , authorized , by and with the advice

and consent of the Senate, to appoint James G. Field, assistant surgeon, United States Navy, retired, to the active list of the Navy as a surgeon (with rank of lieutenant) not in line of promotion.

Approved, May 1 , 1902.

May 1 , 1902.

CHAP . 677. -An Act To remove the charge of desertion against Frederick Schulte

or Schuldt. [Private, No. 580. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United orFSrcehduelrditc.k Schulte States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the reCmhoavregde. of desertion Navy be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the
charge of desertion now borne on the records of the Navy Department against Frederick Schulte or Schuldt , formerly a seaman on the United States steamships Anotonia and Hartford , and to grant the said Schulte a discharge from the service of the Government.
Approved, May 1 , 1902.

May 1 , 1902.
[Private, No. 581. ]
Joseph Tusinski . Pension.

CHAP. 678. --An Act Granting a pension to Joseph Tusinski .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Tusinski , late a private in Company E, Fourteenth Regiment United States Infantry.
Approved, May 1 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 685-689. 1902 .

1367

CHAP. 685. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Patrick Moran.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Patrick Moran, late of Company M, Third Regiment United States Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3 , 1902. [Private , No. 582.]
Patrick Moran. Pension increased.

CHAP. 686. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis W. Pool.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis W. Pool, late of Company G, Twelfth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 583. ]
Francis W. Pool. Pension increased.

CHAP. 687. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alonzo Lewis.

May 3, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alonzo Lewis , late of Company B, Fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

[Private , No. 584.] Alonzo Lewis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 688. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lonson R. Burr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lonson R. Burr, late of Company G, Twelfth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3 , 1902.
[Private, No. 585.]
Lonson R. Burr. Pension increased.

CHAP. 689. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Wright .

May 3, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick Wright, late of the United States steam-

[Private, No. 586. ]
Frederick Wright. Pension increased.

1368

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 689-693. 1902.
ship Minnesota, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 587.] Annie L. Evens. Pension increased.
3

CHAP. 690. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie L. Evens.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie L. Evens , widow of John H. Evens, late first lieutenant, Company K, Forty-third Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said John H. Evens until they reach the age of sixteen vears.

Approved, May 3 , 1902 .

May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 691. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ephraim D. Dorman.

[Private, No. 588. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
maEnp.hraim D. Dor States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ephraim D. Dorman , late of Company G, Second

Regiment Maine Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 3 , 1902 .

May 3 , 1902. [Private, No. 589. ]
MPaerngsairoentiMnc.rGeraasendt..

CHAP. 692. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret M. Grant.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret M. Grant, widow of Marcus Grant, late major First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Engineers and Mechanics, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3 , 1902. [Private, No. 590.]
Mary A. Andress. Pension increased .

CHAP. 693. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Andress.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Mary A. Andress, widow of Philip Andress , late of

Company F, Eleventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and

pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu

Proviso. Increase to cease on of that she is now receiving: Provided, however, That in the event of

death of child.

the death of Lula Belle Andress , helpless and dependent child of said

Philip Andress, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine .

Approved, May 3, 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 694-698. 1902.

1369

CHAP. 694. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard Trist.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard Trist, late of Company B, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 591.]
Richard Trist. Pension increased.

CHAP. 695. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Theron R. Mack.

May 3 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Theron R. Mack, late of Company A, Eighteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

[Private, No. 592. ] Theron R. Mack. Pension increased.

CHAP. 696. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah H. Lake.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah H. Lake , widow of Charles R. Lake , late of Company F, Thirty-second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902.
[Private, No. 593.]
Sarah H. Lake. Pension increased.

CHAP. 697. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William A. Campbell.

May 3, 1902.

[Private, No. 594. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United William A. CampStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the bell. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. Campbell , late of Company G, Twenty-

fifth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 698. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caroline R. Boyd.

May 3, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline R. Boyd, widow of Augustus Boyd, late captain and assistant quartermaster, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 595.] Caroline R. Boyd. Pension increased.

1370

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 699-702 . 1902.

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 596.]
Phineas Curran. Pension increased.

CHAP. 699. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Phineas Curran.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Phineas Curran, late of Company G, Thirty- eighth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 700. -An Act To remove the charge of desertion against David A. Lane.

[Private, No. 597.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

David A. Lane.

Charge of desertion States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

removed.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to correct the military

record of David A. Lane, late a member of the Sixteenth Maine Infan-

try Volunteers and of the First District of Columbia Cavalry Volun-

teers, and to grant him an honorable discharge as of date September

Proviso. No pay, etc.

twenty-fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty - four, from Company M of said First District of Columbia Cavalry Volunteers: Provided, That no pay, bounty , or allowances shall be allowed by reason of this Act.

Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 701. -An Act To correct the military record of Peter Connell.

[Private, No. 598.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Peter Connell.

Military record cor- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

rected .

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of

desertion now appearing on the records on file in the War Department against Peter Connell , late a private of Company E, One hundred and

first Regiment Pennsylvania Infantry Volunteers, and grant him an

Proviso. No pay, etc.

honorable discharge as of May thirty -first, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo: Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 702. -An Act For the relief of Edward R. Stackable, collector of customs

for the district of Hawaii. [Private, No. 599.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United abEled.ward R. Stack- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Duplicate gold cer- Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to issue to tifViocalt.e3s1t,opb.e4i7s.sued to. Edward R. Stackable, collector of customs for the district of Hawaii,
duplicates in lieu of three United States gold certificates issued under the Act of March fourteenth, nineteen hundred, series of nineteen
hundred, numbered , respectively, six hundred and seventy-five, six hundred and seventy-seven, and six hundred and seventy-eight, for ten thousand dollars each, issued by the assistant treasurer of the United States at San Francisco , California , on January thirty-first,
nineteen hundred and one, payable to the order of the Bank of Hawaii, Limited, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, and transferred by said Bank of Hawaii to said Edward R. Stackable as collector of customs in payment of customs duties, said certificates having been lost on the Pacific mail steamer Rio de Janeiro , which was wrecked in or near the har-

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 702-706. 1902.

1371

bor of San Francisco , California, on the twenty-second day of February, nineteen hundred and one : Provided, That the said Edward R. Stackable shall first file in the Treasury a bond of indemnity in double the amount of the principal of said certificates , with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury , with condition to indemnify and save harmless the United States from any claim because of the lost certificates hereinbefore described .
Approved, May, 3, 1902 .

Proviso. Indemnity bond.

CHAP. 703. - An Act Granting a pension to Christopher Columbus Sheets.

May 3, 1902.

[Private, No. 600. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the buCshrSihsetetosph. er ColumInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Christopher Columbus Sheets, late an acting

recruiting officer of the United States in the civil war, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.

Approved, May 3, 1902.

CHAP. 704. -An Act Granting a pension to Shadrack I. Corbett.

May 3 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Shadrack I. Corbett, late of Company D, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

[Private, No. 601. ] Shadrack I. Corbett. Pension .

CHAP. 705. - An Act Granting a pension to Lydia Carr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lydia Carr, the dependent and helpless daughter of Gorrin H. Carr, late of Company C, Thirty-seventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 602.]
Pension.

CHAP. 706. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary C. Trask.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary C. Trask, widow of Amos B. Trask , late of Company G, Twenty- third Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 603.]
Mary C. Trask. Pension.

1372

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHs. 707-711 . 1902.

May 3, 1902,
[Private, No. 604.]
Mary Holmes. Pension.

CHAP. 707. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary Holmes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Holmes , widow of John O. Holmes , late of Company F , Forty- seventh Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 605.]
John Watts. Pension.

CHAP. 708. -An Act Granting a pension to John Watts.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Watts, the dependent and helpless son of Little B. Watts, late of Company G, First Regiment Alabama and Tennessee Vidette Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 606.]
ettE.lizabeth L. BeckPension.

CHAP. 709. -An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth L. Beckett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth L. Beckett, widow of John Beckett, late

of Company K, Eighty- sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and

pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, May 3, 1902.

May 3 , 1902. [Private, No. 607.]
PTehnosmiaosn.Holloway.

CHAP. 710. --An Act Granting a pension to Thomas Holloway.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Holloway, late of Company K, Twentieth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Emergency Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 3, 1902 .

May 3, 1902. [Private, No. 608.]
Ida M. Briggs. Pension.

CHAP . 711. -An Act Granting a pension to Ida M. Briggs.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida M. Briggs, widow of Fred T. Briggs, late first

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 711-715 . 1902.
lieutenant Company E, First Regiment Washington Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Fred T. Briggs until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, May 3, 1902 .

1373

CHAP. 712. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John O'Rourke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John O'Rourke, late of Company B, One hundred and tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 609. ]
John O'Rourke. Pension increased .

CHAP. 713. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Hall .
Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Hall , late of Company H, Fourth Regiment Tennessee Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 610. ]
John Hall. Pension increased.

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

CHAP. 71 4. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Runnebaum.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Runnebaum, late of Company A, Fifty - eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

[ Private, No. 611. ]
Henry Runnebaum . Pension increased .

CHAP. 715. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Sims.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Sims, late of Independent Battery E, PennsoyfltvwaeninatyVodlolulnatresepreLrimgohnttAhrtiinllleieruy,oafntdhaptahyehiismnaopwernescieoinviantgt. he rate

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 612. ]
Daniel Sims. Pension increased.

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

1374

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 716-720 . 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 613.]
George W. Parker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 716. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Parker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Parker, late major Seventy -ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902. [Private, No. 614. ]
JPaenmseisonD.inBcorwelasaendd. .

CHAP. 717. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Bowland.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James D. Bowland, late of Company G, First Regiment New York Volunteer Marine Artillery, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5, 1902. [Private, No. 615.]

CHAP. 718. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James R. Brockett.

James R. Brockett. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Pension increased . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James R. Brockett, late of Company H, Fourteenth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private. No. 616. ]
Joseph Seithen . Pension increased.

CHAP. 719. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Seithen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Seithen , late of Company B , Fourteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 720. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richmond M. Curtis.

[Private, No. 617. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United tisR. ichmond M. Cur States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of Richmond M. Curtis , late of Company A , Eighth

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 720-724. 1902.
Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

1375

CHAP. 721.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. Taylor.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Taylor, late of Company H, One hundred and third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

[ Private, No. 618.] William G. Taylor. Pension increased .

CHAP . 722.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander F. McConnell.

May 5, 1902.

[Private, No. 619.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the CoAnlneexllan. der F. McInterior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws , the name of Alexander F. McConnell , late of Company K, One hundred and Twenty- first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 723. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah Ciples, now Van-

May 5, 1902.

demark.

[Private, No. 620. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the foSramrearhly VCiapnldese.mark, Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah Ciples, now Vandemark, dependent mother of Albert P. Ciples, late of Company I, One hundred and ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 724. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James R. Wilson.

May 5, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James R. Wilson, late of Captain Blackman's company, First Regiment Tennessee Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[Private , No. 621. ] James R. Wilson. Pension increased.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

1376

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 725-729 . 1902 .

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 622. ]
John J. Wolfe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 725. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John J. Wolfe.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John J. Wolfe , late first lieutenant Company A. First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 726. -An Act Granting a pension to William P. Featherstone.

[Private, No. 623. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

stWoinel.liam P. Feather States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William P. Featherstone, late of Company F, First Regiment United States Mounted Rifles, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 624. ]
Alexander Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 727. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alexander Scott, late of the Sixth Independent Battery Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 625.]
James Cooley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 728. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Cooley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James Cooley, late of Company F, Thirty-first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902. [Private, No. 626. ]
S. Agnes Young. Pension increased.

CHAP. 729.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to S. Agnes Young.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of S. Agnes Young, widow of Thomas L. Young, late

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. Cs . 729-733 . 1902.
lieutenant-colonel One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

1377

CHAP. 730. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac Phipps.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac Phipps, late of Captain Gregg's company, Tennessee Volunteers, Cherokee Indian disturbances, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 627.]
Isaac Phipps. Pension increased.

CHAP. 731. --An Act Granting a pension to Sidney Cable.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sidney Cable , widow of Coonrod Cable , late of Company K, Fourteenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 628. ]
Sidney Cable. Pension.

CHAP. 732. -An Act Granting a pension to James B. Hashbargar.

May 5, 1902.

[Private, No. 629.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United James B. Hashbar-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the gar. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James B. Hashbargar, dependent and helpless son

of Zachariah S. Hashbargar, late of Company K, First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 733. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James E. Horton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. Horton, late of Company A, Sixteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902. VOL XXXII , PT 2- -10

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 630.]
James E. Horton. Pension increased .

1378

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 734-738 . 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 631.]
Obed D. Jasper. Pension increased.

CHAP. 734. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Obed D. Jasper.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Obed D. Jasper, iate unassigned recruit, Fourth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 735. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Frey.

[Private, No. 632. ]
James Frey. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roli, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Frey, late of Company G, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902. [Private , No. 633. ]
Ida M. Warren . Pension.

CHAP. 736. -An Act Granting a pension to Ida M. Warren.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida M. Warren , widow of Charles Warren , late second lieutenant Company H, Forty-fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902. [Private, No. 634. ]
Nellie Loucks. Pension increased .

CHAP . 737. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nellie Loucks.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nellie Loucks , widow of Jerome B. Loucks, late of Battery G, First Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 635. ]
Jane Caton. Pension.

CHAP. 738. - An Act Granting a pension to Jane Caton .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 738-742 . 1902.
laws, the name of Jane Caton, widow of Mathew Caton, late of Company F, First Regiment United States Lancers, Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 5 , 1902.

1379

CHAP. 739. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George F. Bowers.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George F. Bowers, late first lieutenant Company C, Seventh Regiment Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 636.]
GPeeonrsgioenF.inBcorweearssed, .

CHAP. 740. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James A. McKeehan.

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 637.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United James A. McKee-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the han. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James A. McKeehan , late of Company I , Seventieth

Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

CHAP. 741. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jethro M. Getman, alias May 5 , 1902.

James M. Getman.

[Private , No. 638. ]

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United alGiaesthJraomeMs. GMe.tmGaent-, States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the maPnen. sion increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gethro M. Getman , alias James M. Getman , late first lieutenant Company G , Forty - second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 742. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Humphrey.

May 5 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 639.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United James W. Hum-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the phrey. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James W. Humphrey, late of Company C, Twenty-

Sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

1380

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 743-747. 1902.

May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 743. -An Act Granting a pension to John R. Homer Scott.

[Private, No. 640. ]

John R.
Scott. Pension.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Homer States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John R. Homer Scott, late captain Company C,

First Regiment Arkansas Mounted Gun Men, Sabine Indian disturb-

ance, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 744. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ellen J. Clark.

[Private, No. 641. ]
Ellen J. Clark. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen J. Clark, widow of Henry W. Clark, late of

Company K, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that

she is now receiving , and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Henry W. Clark until he reaches the age of sixteen years .

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 745. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anna E. Luke.

[Private, No. 642.]
Anna E. Luke. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna E. Luke, widow of Andrew M. Luke, late captain Company B, Seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 746. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lemuel Grove.

[Private, No. 643. ]
Lemuel Grove. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lemuel Grove, late captain Company F, Fortysixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 747. -- An Act Granting a pension to Amanda C. Bayliss .

[Private, No. 644. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
APemnasnidona. C. Bayliss. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHs. 747-751 . 1902 .
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amanda C. Bayliss, widow of Andrew J. Bayliss , late of Company C, First Regiment Arkansas Mounted Gun Men , Sabine Indian disturbance, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

1381

CHAP . 748. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Genevieve Almira Sprigg May 5 , 1902.

Ludlow.

[Private, No. 645.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Genevieve Almira States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Sprigg Ludlow. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased , pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Genevieve Almira Sprigg Ludlow, widow of William
Ludlow, late brigadier-general, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

CHAP. 749. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Hankins.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of James W. Hankins , late of Company H, Forty- ninth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 646. ] James W. Hankins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 750. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anna L. Cory.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 647.]
Anna L. Cory. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna L. Cory, widow of John Cory, late of Com-

pany G, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and second

lieutenant Company H, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy

Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event

Proviso. Increase to cease on

of the death of Mary Ella Cory and Edwin Lewis Cory , helpless and death of child.

dependent children of said John Cory, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine.

Approved, May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 751. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas S. Rowan.

May 5, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 648.]
Thomas S. Rowan. Pension increased .

1382

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 751-755 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas S. Rowan , late of Company I, Twenty-fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 649.]
Silas D. Strong. Pension increased.

CHAP . 752. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Silas D. Strong.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Silas D. Strong, late of Company F, One hundred and eighty-sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 650. ]
Inez E. Perrine. Pension increased.

CHAP. 753. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Inez E. Perrine.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Inez E. Perrine, widow of Thomas A. Perrine , late of Company G, One hundred and fortieth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Thomas A. Perrine until he reaches the age of sixteen years .

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 651. ]
Charles Dixon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 754. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Dixon .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Dixon , late of Company K, Eighth Regiment Connecticut Voluntary Infantry, and chaplain Sixteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 652.]
Jesse W. Bice. Pension increased.

CHAP. 755. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jesse W. Bice.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jesse W. Bice, late major Third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 756-760 . 1902 .

1383

CHAP. 756. --An Act Granting a pension to Patrick J. Murphy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Patrick J. Murphy, late of the United States steamship Saturn , United States Navy.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902.
[Private , No. 653. ]
Patrick J. Murphy. Pension.

CHAP. 757. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas E. James.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas E. James, late of Company H , One hundred and sixteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and Company F , Forty-second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 654. ]
Thomas E. James. Pension increased.

CHAP. 758.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Zeno T. Griffen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Zeno T. Griffen, late of Company E, One hundred and twenty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 655.]
Zeno T. Griffen. Pension increased .

CHAP. 759. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles L. Cummings .

May 5 , 1902.

[Private, No. 656. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Charles L. CumStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the mings. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles L. Cummings, late of Company E, Twenty-

eighth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 760. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel L. Leffingwell.

May 5 , 1902.

[Private, No. 657. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Samuel L. Leffing-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the well.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

1384

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 760-764. 1902.
laws, the name of Samuel L. Leffingwell, late of Company L, Second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and major Thirty-first and Eighty- seventh Regiments Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and private, Company M, First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.

CHAP. 761. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth A. Capehart.

[Private, No. 658. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

haErlti. zabeth A. Cape States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Capehart , widow of Henry Capehart, late colonel First Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry and

brevet major-general nited States Volunteers, and pay her a pension

at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 659.]
James Scannell. Pension increased .

CHAP . 762. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Scannell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Scannell, late of Company E, Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and Company K, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 660. ]
Warren B. Nudd. Pension increased.

CHAP . 763. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Warren B. Nudd .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Warren B. Nudd , late of Company A, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902.
[Private , No. 661. ]
Waity West. Pension increased .

CHAP. 764. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Waity West.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Waity West, widow of Isaac West, late of Captain

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHsS. 764-768 . 1902 .
F. C. White's company, New York Militia, war of eighteen hundred and twelve, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902 .

1385

CHAP. 765. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Norton.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Norton, late of Company K , Thirteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 662.]
William H. Norton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 766. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Minerva Melton.

May 5, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 663. ]
Minerva Melton. Pension increased .

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Minerva Melton , widow of Newton Melton, late of Company I, Fourth Regiment Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death Increase to cease on of Decota Melton, helpless and dependent daughter of said Newton death of child. Melton, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

CHAP. 767. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abner J. Pettee.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abner J. Pettee, late of Company E, Twenty-sixth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5, 1902 .

[ Private , No. 664. ] Abner J. Pettee. Pension increased .

CHAP. 768.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Brown.

May 5 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Brown , late of Company I, Thirteenth Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

[ Private, No. 665. ] John Brown. Pension increased,

1386

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 769-773 . 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 666.]
John S. Robinson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 769. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Robinson .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

persion roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Robinson, late of Company G, First Regi-

ment Colorado Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 667. ]
Mary Beals. Pension increased.

CHAP. 770. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Beals.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Beals , widow of Jerome Beals , late second
lieutenant Company E , Second Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902 .

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 668. ]
Lydia M. Granger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 771. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lydia M. Granger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lydia M. Granger, widow of William M. Granger, late of the United States Marine Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said William M. Granger until they reach the age of sixteen years.

Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 669. ]
Clifford Neff Fyffe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 772. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clifford Neff Fyffe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clifford Neff Fyffe, widow of Joseph Fyffe, .ate

rear-admiral , United States Navy , and pay her a pension at the rate

of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 670. ]
Delania Ferguson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 773. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Delania Ferguson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHs. 773-777 . 1902.
laws, the name of Delania Ferguson, widow of William Ferguson, late of Captain Kelsey's company, North Carolina Volunteers , Cherokee Indian disturbance, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved , May 5, 1902 .

1387

CHAP. 774.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles F. Rand.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Rand, late of Company K, Twelfth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5 , 1902. [Private, No. 671. ]
Charles F. Rand. Pension increased .

CHAP. 775.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maria L. Godfrey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria L. Godfrey, widow of Alfred C. Godfrey, late chaplain Twentieth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 5, 1902.

May 5 , 1902.
[Private, No. 672. ]
Maria L. Godfrey, Pension increased .

CHAP. 776. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eunice A. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eunice A. Smith , widow of Frederick R. Smith , late commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Frederick R. Smith until he reaches the age of sixteen years .
Approved, May 5 , 1902.

May 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 673. ]
Eunice A. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 777. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abbie George.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abbie George, widow of Rufus L. George, late of Company F, Twenty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 5 , 1902 .

May 5, 1902 .
[Private, No. 674.]
Abbie George. Pension increased.

1388

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 786 , 791 , 793-795. 1902

May 12, 1902.
[Private, No. 675.]
James H. Walker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 786. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Walker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. Walker, late captain Company D, United

States Voltigeurs, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 12 , 1902 .

May 15, 1902.

CHAP. 791. -An Act For the relief of Mrs. Arivella D. Meeker.

[Private, No. 676.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
Mrs. Arivella D. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Meeker.
Payment to, from Treasury is hereby directed to pay to Mrs. Arivella D. Meeker, of Ute annuity fund.
Greeley, Colorado, an annuity of five hundred dollars per annum for
her life, commencing on the fifteenth day of June, nineteen hundred,
out of the annuities of the confederated bands of Ute Indians, as

a recognition of the services of her husband, the late Nathan Cook

Meeker, as Indian agent at the White River Agency, in Colorado , and

for the losses his family sustained by reason of his assassination and the destruction of his property by the Indians of said agency in the

year eighteen hundred and seventy- nine.

Approved, May 15, 1902 .

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 677. ]
PMeanrsyioFn.. Zollinger.

CHAP . 793.-An Act Granting a pension to Mary F. Zollinger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary F. Zollinger, widow of Charles A. Zollinger, late colonel One hundred and twenty-ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty collars per month.

Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 678. ]
DPenWsiitotnCi.nBcerneanseetdt..

CHAP. 794.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to DeWitt C. Bennett.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of DeWitt C. Bennett, late of Company F, Nineteenth

Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 679.]
Samuel S. Beaver. Pension.

CHAP. 795. -- An Act Granting a pension to Samuel S. Beaver.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHs . 795-799. 1902 .
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel S. Beaver, late of Company G, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 17, 1902 .

1389

CHAP. 796. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eben C. Winslow.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eben C. Winslow, late of Company F, Ninety- second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 17, 1902 .

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 680. ]
Eben C. Winslow. Pension increased.

CHAP. 797. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Etta Adair Anderson .

May 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 681. ] Etta Adair Ander-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased . pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Etta Adair Anderson , widow of J. Patton Ander-
son, late lieutenant-colonel Battalion Mississippi Rifles, war with Mex-
ico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 17, 1902.

CHAP. 798. --An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca Coppinger.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca Coppinger, widow of William H. Coppinger, late of Company K, First Regiment United States Dragoons, Sabine Indian disturbance, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 17 , 1902.

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 682. ]
Rebecca Coppinger. Pension.

CHAP. 799. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alfred M. Wheeler.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alfred M. Wheeler, late of Company C , Sixth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and Company D, Fourteenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 17, 1902 .

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 683. ]
Alfred M. Wheeler Pension increased.

1390

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 800-804. 1902.

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 684.]
George McDowell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 800. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George McDowell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George McDowell, late of Company H, Twentyfifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 17 , 1902.

May 17, 1902.

CHAP. 801. --An Act Granting a pension to Ruth H. Ferguson.

[Private , No. 685. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
RPeuntshioHn.. Ferguson . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ruth H. Ferguson , helpless and dependent daughter of William P. Ferguson , late captain Company D, Third Regiment

Maryland Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 17 , 1902.

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 686. ]
John Coolen. Pension.

CHAP. 802. - An Act Granting a pension to John Coolen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Coolen, late of Company B, Tenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 17, 1902.

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 687. ]
Ada V. Park. Pension .

CHAP. 803.-An Act Granting a pension to Ada V. Park.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorzied and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ada V. Park, widow of Andrew G. Park, late of Company A, First Regiment United States Cavalry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Andrew G. Park until he reaches the age of sixteen years."
Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 688. ]
Emma S. Hanna. Pension increased.

CHAP. 804. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma S. Hanna.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 804-808. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma S. Hanna, widow of Thomas Hanna, late of Company C. One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

1391

CHAP. 805. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas L. Nelson.

May 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas L. Nelson, late of Company C, Thirty- fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

[ Private , No. 689. ] TPehnosmiaosn iL.ncNreelassoend..

CHAP. 806. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Philo F. Englesby.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Philo F. Englesby, late of Company A, Seventh Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 17, 1902.

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 690. ]
Philo F. Englesby. Pension increased .

CHAP. 807. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry W. Edens.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry W. Edens , late of Company D, Thirty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 17 , 1902.

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 691. ]
Henry W. Edens. Pension increased.

CHAP. 808. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth C. Vincent. May 17, 1902.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 692. ] Elizabeth C. Vin-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the cent. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth C. Vincent, widow of Strong Vincent, late colonel Eighty -third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and brigadier-general , United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 17, 1902.

1392

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 809-813. 1902 .

May 17, 1902.

CHAP. 809. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hallowell Goddard.

[Private, No. 693.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PHealnlsoiwoenlilncGroedadsaerdd. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Hallowell Goddard, late of Company A, Eighth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 17, 1902.

May 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 694. ]
Ann E. Collier. Pension increased.

CHAP. 810. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann E. Collier.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann E. Collier, widow of George W. Collier, late lieutenant-colonel, United States Marine Corps, and pay her a pensior

at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 695. ]
JPoesnseipohnD.inHcarzeazsaerdd. .

CHAP. 811. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph D. Hazzard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Joseph D. Hazzard, late first lieutenant Company D, Seventy-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay

him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he

is now receiving.

Approved, May 17 , 1902.

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 696. ]
Paul Fuchs. Pension increased.

CHAP. 812. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Paul Fuchs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Paul Fuchs , late second lieutenant Company A, Fiftysecond Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 697.]
William F. Horn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 813. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Horn .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William F. Horn , late of Company A, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 17 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 814 , 815 , 822, 824. 1902.

1393

CHAP. 814.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marietta L. Adams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marietta L. Adams, widow of Edgar A. Adams , late of Company A, Sixth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 17, 1902.

May 17, 1902. [Private, No. 698. ]
Marietta L. Adams. Pension increased.

CHAP. 815. -An Act For the relief of Robert J. Spottswood and the heirs of Wil- May 17, 1902.

liam C. McClellan , deceased.

[Private, No. 699. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Robert J. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the word and her of
Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay, out of WiPlalyimamenC.tMtcoC. lellan . any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to Robert J.
Spottswood and the heirs of William C. McClellan, deceased , of Colorado , twelve thousand five hundred dollars , as additional compensation
for transporting the United States mail from Morrison to Fairplay, and from Fairplay to Leadville, in the State of Colorado, by the said Spottswood and McClellan , from the first day of September, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, to the tenth day of September, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine.
Approved, May 17 , 1902.

CHAP. 822. -An Act To place the name of Paul Crum on the muster rolls of Com- May 22, 1902.

pany B, First Regiment North Dakota Volunteer Infantry.

[Private, No. 700. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Paul Crum . States of America in Congress assembled, That Paul Crum , of the city Military record cor-
of Fargo , State of North Dakota , shall be held and considered to have rected.

served as a private, Company B, First Regiment North Dakota Vol-

unteer Infantry, in the war with Spain , from February third, eighteen

hundred and ninety -nine, to March twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred

and ninety -nine, and to have been honorably discharged of said last date .
SEC. 2. That said Paul Crum be, and he is hereby, entitled to all

Privileges, etc.

privileges and immunities belonging to a private soldier of said regiment the same as though he had been regularly enlisted therein.

Approved, May 22 , 1902 .

CHAP. 824. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maria J. Wilson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria J. Wilson , widow of Junius A. Wilson, late of Company C, One hundred and twenty -fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902. VOL XXXII , PT 2-11

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 701. ]
Maria J. Wilson. Pension increased.

1394

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 825-829. 1902.

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 825.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Tate.

[Private, No. 702.]

Mary Tate.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Tate, widow of Waddy Tate, late musician in

Captain Poindexter's company, Virginia Volunteers, war of eighteen hundred and twelve, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 703. ]
Michael Marnane. Pension increased.

CHAP. 826. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Marnane.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Marnane, late of Company G, Fifty -seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 704.]
Erma G. Harvey. Pension .

CHAP. 827. --An Act Granting a pension to Erma G. Harvey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Erma G. Harvey, the helpless and dependent daughter of John C. Harvey, late of Company A, Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 828. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Warren W. H. Lawrence.

[Private, No. 705. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United reWnacrer. en W. H. Law States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Warren W. H. Lawrence , late captain and assistant

adjutant-general, United States Volunteers , and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902. "Private, No. 706.]
James W. Roath. Pension increased.

CHAP. 829. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Roath.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 829-833 . 1902.
laws, the name of James W. Roath, late of Company I , First Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

1395

CHAP. 830.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Matthews.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Matthews, late of Company B, Forty - sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 707.]
William Matthews. Pension increased.

CHAP. 831.- An Act Granting a pension to Frances J. Abercrombie.

May 23, 1902.

[Private , No. 708. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Frances J. Aber States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the crombie. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension .

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frances J. Abercrombie, widow of Abner Aber-

crombie, late of Captain Ashurst's company Alabama Volunteers , Creek

Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 832. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James C. G. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James C. G. Smith, late of Company D, Fortieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 709. ]
JPaenmseisonC.iGn.crSemaisetdh..

CHAP. 833. - An Act Granting a pension to Frank W. Lynn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank W. Lynn, late of Company C, First Regiment Colorado Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902 .
[Private, No. 710. ]
Frank W. Lynn. Pension.

1396

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 834-838 . 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 711.]
George Tucker. Pension.

CHAP. 834.-An Act Granting a pension to George Tucker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Tucker, late of Company K, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 835. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary Shelton Huston.

[Private, No. 712. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

toMna. ry Shelton Hus- States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Shelton Huston, late an army nurse in the

Medical Department, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 836. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Dixon.

[Private, No. 713.]
William H. Dixon. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William H. Dixon , late of Company G, Fifty-first

Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23, 1902,

CHAP. 837.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Holdridge.

[Private, No. 714.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
WPienlsliioanm iHnoclrderasieddg.e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Holdridge, late of Company A, One hundred and forty- fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 715.]
Alvin J. Hartzell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 838. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alvin J. Hartzell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 838-842. 1902 .
laws, the name Alvin J. Hartzell , late of Company K, One hundred and twenty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

1397

CHAP. 839. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth P. Sigfried.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth P. Sigfried , widow of Joshua K. Sigfried, late colonel Forty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

[ Private , No. 716.]
Elizabeth P. Sigfried. Pension increased.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

CHAP. 840. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Enos G. Budd.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Enos G. Budd, late of Company F, Fifteenth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

[Private, No. 717. ] Enos G. Budd. Pension increased.

CHAP. 841. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John G. Sanders.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John G. Sanders, late of Company B, Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 718. ]
John G. Sanders. Pension increased.

CHAP. 842.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar W. Lowery.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name Oscar W. Lowery, late of Company I, Sixth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

[Private, No. 719. ]
Oscar W. Lowery. Pension increased

1398

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 843-847. 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 720.]
Mary J. Fitch. Pension.

CHAP. 843. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Fitch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Fitch, widow of Seeley J. Fitch, late of Company D, Second Regiment United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Seeley J. Fitch until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 721. ]
William H. Wood. Pension increased.

CHAP. 844. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Wood.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Wood , late of the United States steamships Santee and Marion, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 722. ]
Ann E. Austin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 845. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann E. Austin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann E. Austin , widow of Joseph O. Austin , late of Company F, Twelfth Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry,
and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 723. ]

CHAP. 846. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Ashley.

James M. Ashley.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Ashley, late of Company L, First Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 724. ]
Oliver Kerr. Pension increased.

CHAP. 847. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver Kerr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 847-851 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver Kerr, late of Company M, Ninth Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

1399

CHAP. 848. -An Act Granting a pension to Dewitt Clinton Letts.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 725. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Dewitt Clinton States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Letts.
Pension. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Dewitt Clinton Letts, late of Company C, One hun-

dred and thirty -ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and

pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

CHAP. 849. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William T. Peterson.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William T. Peterson, late of Company F, One hundred and ninety-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 726. ] WilliamT. Peterson.
Pension increased.

CHAP. 850. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Lewis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James W. Lewis, late of Company K, First Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23 , 1902.
[Private, No. 727. ]
James W. Lewis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 851. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hannibal C. Saint Clair. May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 728. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Hannibal C. Saint States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Clair. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannibal C. Saint Clair, late first lieutenant Com-
pany G, Thirty-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

1400

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 852-856 . 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 729. ]
Matthew V. Ellis. Pension.

CHAP . 852. -An Act Granting a pension to Matthew V. Ellis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matthew V. Ellis, late of Captain Townsend's company, Georgia Volunteers, Cherokee Indian disturbance, and pay hi.m a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 730. ]
Jacob Weidel. Pension increased.

CHAP . 853. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jacob Weidel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jacob Weidel, late of Company K, Two hundred and ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23 , 1902.
[Private, No. 731. ]
Rachel S. Lyman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 854.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rachel S. Lyman.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rachel S. Lyman, widow of Joseph Lyman , late major Twenty-ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 732. ]
Uriah Garber. Pension increased.

CHAP. 855. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Uriah Garber.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Uriah Garber, late of Company F, First Regiment Potomac Home Brigade, Maryland Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 733.]
LPuensifonrdinYc.reBasielde.y.

CHAP. 856. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lunsford Y. Bailey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 856-860 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lunsford Y. Bailey, late of Company I , Twentythird Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and Signal Corps, United States Army , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

1401

CHAP. 857. --An Act Granting a pension to Helen F. Lasher.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen F. Lasher, widow of Oren E. Lasher, late lieutenant, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Oren E. Lasher until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 734.]
Helen F. Lasher. Pension.

CHAP. 858.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert A. Pinn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert A. Pinn , late of Company I, Fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 735.]
Robert A. Pinn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 859. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Burket.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Burket, late of Company K, Twenty- ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

[Private , No. 736.] John S. Burket.
Pension increased.

CHAP. 860. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elvin A. Esty .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elvin A. Esty , late of Company C, Fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 737.]
Elvin A. Esty. Pension increased.

1402

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 861-865. 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 738. ]
James T. Steele. Pension.

CHAP. 861. -- An Act Granting a pension to James T. Steele.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James T. Steele , late of the Hospital Corps , United States Army, war with Spain , and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 862.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry E. Williams.

[Private, No. 739. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
HPennsriyonE.inWcirlelaisaemds. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry E. Williams, late first lieutenant Company

B, Thirty-first Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 863. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William T. Hamilton.

[Private, No. 740.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
toWni. lliam T. Hamil States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William T. Hamilton, late of Company E, Twelfth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 864. -An Act Granting a pension to Alice D. H. Krause.

[Private, No. 741.] PAelincseioD.n.H. Krause .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice D. H. Krause , widow of William Krause, late

captain, Third Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, May 23, 1902 .

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 742.]
James Merrick. Pension increased.

CHAP. 865. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Merrick.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 865-869 . 1902.
laws, the name of James Merrick, late of Company I, One hundred and thirty-third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

1403

CHAP. 866. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albion P. Stiles.

May 23, 1902 .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albion P. Stiles, late of Company H, Seventeenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 743.]
Albion P. Stiles. Pension increased.

CHAP. 867. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caleb C. Briggs.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caleb C. Briggs , late assistant surgeon One hundred and fifty-ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 744. ]
Caleb C. Briggs. Pension increased.

CHAP. 868. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Hatton.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Hatton, late of Company C, First Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 745. ] GPeeonsrigoenWi.ncHraetatsoend..

CHAP. 869. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles M. Montgomery. May 23, 1902 .
[Private, No. 746. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
Charles M. MontStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the gomery. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles M. Montgomery, late of Company G,
Eighteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

1404

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 870-874. 1902.

May 23 , 1902.
[Private, No. 747.]
John J. Manner. Pension.

CHAP. 870. --An Act Granting a pension to John J. Manner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John J. Manner, late of Company B, Two hundred and second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-two dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 748. ]
Susan A. Volkmar. Pension increased .

CHAP. 871. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan A. Volkmar.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Susan A. Volkmar , widow of William J. Volkmar, late major and assistant adjutant-general, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 749. ]
Hannah mons. A. Tim
Pension.

CHAP. 872. -An Act Granting a pension to Hannah A. Timmons.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah A. Timmons, widow of William R. Tim-

mons, late captain Company D, Thirty-fifth Regiment Illinois Volun-

teer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month .

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 750.]
George W. Wertz. Pension increased.

CHAP. 873. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Wertz.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Wertz, late of Company A, Forty- sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 751. ]
Edgar T. Daniels. Pension increased.

CHAP . 874. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edgar T. Daniels
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 874-878. 1902.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edgar T. Daniels, late of Company C , Twelfth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23 , 1902.

1405

CHAP. 875. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caleb W. Story.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caleb W. Story, late of Company G, Tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902. [Private, No. 752. ] CPaelnesiboWn. iSntcorreya.sed .

CHAP. 876. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick O. Clark.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick O. Clark, late of Company H, Seventysixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 753. ]
Frederick O. Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 877. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Agnes Clark.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Agnes Clark, widow of Henry C. Clark, late of Company B, Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 23, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 754.]
Agnes Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 878.--An Act Granting a pension to Erwin A. Burke, alias BurtA. Erwin. May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 755. ]

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary of the Erwin A. Burke, alias Burt A. Erwin.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Erwin A. Burke, alias Burt A. Erwin , late ordinary

seaman, United States Navy, war with Spain .

Approved, May 23, 1902 .

1406

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 879-883 . 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

[Private, No. 756. ]

Bernard

mick.

McCor

Pension increased .

CHAP. 879. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bernard McCormick.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bernard McCormick, late of Company C, Thirtysecond Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 880. --An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth McDonald.

[Private, No. 757.]

Elizabeth

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

ald.

McDon- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Elizabeth McDonald , the helpless and dependent daughter of John McDonald , late of Company I , Fifth Regiment Con-

necticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 758. ]
Milton Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 881. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Milton Brown , late of Company A , Fourth Regiment

Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 23, 1902.

May 23, 1902.

CHAP. 882. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Rightmire.

[Private, No. 759.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

miWriel.liam H. Right- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Rightmire , late of Company K, Twenty-
eighth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

May 23, 1902.

CHAP . 883. -An Act Granting a pension to Eliza A. Brownlow.

[Private, No. 760. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
EPleinzsaioAn.. Brownlow. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 883-886 , 892. 1902.
laws , the name of Eliza A. Brownlow, dependent mother of James P. Brownlow, late colonel First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry and brevet brigadier-general, United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

1407

CHAP. 884. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isabella H. Thompson.

May 23, 1902.

[Private, No. 761.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Isabella H. ThompStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Isabella H. Thompson, widow of Francis W.

Thompson , late lieutenant-colonel Third Regiment West Virginia Vol-

unteer Infantry and Sixth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu

of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 23 , 1902 .

CHAP. 885. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Blanchard.

May 23, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Blanchard, late of Company D, Sixth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 23, 1902.

[Private, No. 762.] WPielnsliioanmiBnlcarnecahsaedrd. .

CHAP. 886. - An Act To correct the military record of Albert Boker.

May 26, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 763. ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That Albert Boker shall be Albert Boker.

held not to

have

deserted

from the

military service

of

the

United

States

Military record rected.

cor-

as a private of Battery F, Second United States Artillery, but to have

been honorably discharged from said service and battery August seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty- five : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by the passage of

Proviso. No pay, etc.

this bill.

Approved, May 26, 1902 .

CHAP. 892. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John L. Branson.

May 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John L. Branson , late of Company G, Seventy- third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

[Private, No. 764. ]
John L. Branson. Pension increased.

1408

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 893-897. 1902.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 765.]
Orra H. Heath. Pension increased .

CHAP. 893. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orra H. Heath.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Orra II. Heath, late of Company F, Fifteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 766. ]
Martin Essex. Pension.

CHAP. 894.- An Act Granting a pension to Martin Essex.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martin Essex, late of Company K, Seventy- seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved , May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902 .
[Private , No. 767. ]
John J. Martin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 895. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John J. Martin.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John J. Martin, late a captain , Twelfth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at

the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 768. ]

CHAP. 896. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Shaffer.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United WPielnlsiioanm iHn.crSehaasfefder. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Shaffer, late of Company K, Fifth Regi-

ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 897. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christopher C. Perry.

[Private, No. 769. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PeCrhryr,istopher C. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Christopher C. Perry , late of First Independent Bat-

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 897-901 .
tery New Hampshire Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 28, 1902.

1409

CHAP. 898. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick A. Condon. May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 770. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Frederick A. ConStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the don. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick A. Condon, late of Company I, Seventh
Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 899. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry P. Hudson , for- May 28, 1902.

merly Henry P. Dow.

[Private, No. 771.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry P. Hudson , formerly Henry P. Dow, late of Company G, Twelfth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

HPeennsriyonP.inHcurdesasoend. .

Approved, May 28 , 1902

CHAP. 900. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel F. Thompson.

May 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 772.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Daniel F. ThompStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Daniel F. Thompson, late of Company B, Forty-

eighth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 901. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert R. Strong.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert R. Strong, late of Company G , Thirty - first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902 . VOL XXXII, PT 2- -12

May 28 , 1902.
[Private, No. 773. ]
Robert R. Strong. Pension increased.

1410

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 902-906.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 774.]
Oswald Ahlstedt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 902. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oswald Ahlstedt.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oswald Ahlstedt, late of Company K, First Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 775.]
Lorenzo Weeks. Pension increased.

CHAP. 903. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lorenzo Weeks.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lorenzo Weeks, late of Company I, Seventy- ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 904. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Arthur H. Perkins.

[Private, No. 776.] APerntshiuornHi.ncPreeraksiends..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Arthur H. Perkins, late second lieutenant Company

I, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 905. -- An Act Granting a pension to Mary Ann Merrow.

[Private, No. 777.] MPeanrsyioAnn. n Merrow.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States ofAmerica in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Ann Merrow, widow of William O. Merrow,

late of Company K, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 906. --An Act Granting a pension to Ada L. McFarland .

[Private, No. 778.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PAednasiLo.nM. cFarland. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 906-910. 1902.
laws, the name of Ada L. McFarland , widow of Solomon F. McFarland , late assistant surgeon , Eighty-third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

1411

CHAP. 907. - An Act Granting a pension to Hester A. Furr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hester A. Furr, widow of Caleb T. Furr, late of Captain Holland's company , Georgia Volunteers , Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 779.]
Hester A. Furr. Pension .

CHAP. 908.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George K. Thompson.

May 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 780. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soGne.orge K. ThompInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George K. Thompson, late a landsman , United States steamship Connecticut, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , May 28, 1902 .

CHAP. 909.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Courtland C. Matson .

May 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 781.]

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary

of

the

Courtland son.

C.

Mat-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Courtland C. Matson , late lieutenant-colonel Sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 910. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Donne.

May 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Donne, late of Company G, Forty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

[Private , No. 782.] Daniel Donne. Pension increased,

1412

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 911-915 . 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 783. ]
Nancy E. Hardy. Pension.

CHAP. 911. -An Act Granting a pension to Nancy E. Hardy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy E. Hardy, widow of George H. Hardy, late of Company D, Twenty-first Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month,

huPsebnasnidonlitvoincge. ase if such pension to cease upon proof that the soldier is still living. Approved, May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 912. -An Act Granting a pension to Egbert A. Stricksma.

[Private, No. 784. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

EPgebnesritonA..Stricksma. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Egbert A. Stricksma , late of the United States

steamers North Carolina and Brooklyn , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902. [Private , No. 785. ]
John G. Campbell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 913. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Campbell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Campbell, late colonel Seventy -sixth Regi-

ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 914. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gilbert G. Gabrion.

[Private, No. 786. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

GPielnbseirotnGi.ncGraebarsieodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gilbert G. Gabrion, late of Company H, Thirteenth

Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 787.]
William Kaste. Pension.

CHAP. 915. --An Act Granting a pension to William Kaste.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 915-919 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Kaste, late musician in the band of the Fifty- fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

1413

CHAP. 916. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Brill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Brill, late of Company H, One hundred and eighty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902 . [Private, No. 788. ]
John Brill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 917. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Friedrich Weimar.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Friedrich Weimar, late of Company H, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 789. ]
Friedrich Weimar. Pension increased.

CHAP. 918. - An Act Granting a pension to John York.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John York, late of Lieutenant Revere's command , Fremont's battalion, California Volunteers , war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 790. ]
John York. Pension.

CHAP. 919. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew Ray.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew Ray, late captain of Company F, Ninetyseventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 791. ]
Andrew Ray. Pension increased.

Approved , May 28 , 1902 .

1414

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 920-924. 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private . No. 792.1
William H. Hoxie. Pension increased .

CHAP. 920. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Hoxie.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Hoxie, late captain Company M, Eighth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902,

CHAP. 921. -An Act Granting a pension to Hannah H. Graham.

[Private, No. 793. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PHeannsniaonh. H.Graham . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah H. Graham, widow of A. Judd Graham,

late of Captain Taylor's company , Kentucky Militia, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902,

CHAP. 922. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christian Christianson.

[Private, No. 794.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

soCnh.ristian Christian- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christian Christianson, late of Company H, First

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 923. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin M. Dunning.

[Private, No. 795. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

EPednwsiinonM.inDcurneansiendg. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Edwin M. Dunning, late of Company D, Thirty-

second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 796. ]
William Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 924. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 924-928 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Brown , late of Company B, Sixty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty -six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

1415

CHAP. 925. -An Act Granting a pension to Annie Shinn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie Shinn, widow of Nehemiah Shinn, late of Company B, Thirteenth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

May 28, 1902.
[Private , No. 797. ]
Annie Shinn. Pension.

Approved, May 28, 1902 .

CHAP. 926. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael J. Daly.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael J. Daly, late acting ensign, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 798. ]
Michael J. Daly. Pension increased.

CHAP. 927. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James C. Pettee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension. laws, the name of James C. Pettee , late of Company A, Twenty- second Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 799. ]
James C. Pettee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 928. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel J. Mahoney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel J. Mahoney , late of the United States steamship Vandalia , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 800. ]
Daniel J. Mahoney. Pension increased.

1416

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 929-933. 1902.

May 28, 1902 .
[Private, No. 801. ]
Hannah C. Chase. Pension.

CHAP. 929. --An Act Granting a pension to Hannah C. Chase.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah C. Chase, widow of William T. Chase , late chaplain Eighty-first Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, May 28 , 1902.

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 802. ]
PHeennsriyonE.inMcurreapsheyd..

CHAP. 930. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry E. Murphy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry E. Murphy, late of Company K, Fourteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 803. ]
Cyrenus Larrabee. Pension increased.

CHAP. 931. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cyrenus Larrabee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cyrenus Larrabee, late of Company H, Eighty -fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902.
[Private, No. 804. ]
Kate W. Milward . Pension increased.

CHAP. 932.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Kate W. Milward.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kate W. Milward, widow of Hubbard K. Milward,

late lieutenant- colonel Eighteenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902 .
[Private, No. 805.]
Abby T. Daniels. Pension increased.

CHAP. 933. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abby T. Daniels.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abby T. Daniels, widow of John C. Daniels, late of Company I, Twenty-sixth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 933-937. 1902 .

1417

Proviso. lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, however, That in the case Increase to cease on of the death of the helpless and dependent child , Abbie J. Daniels , on death of child . whose account the pension of Abby T. Daniels is increased , the pension of said Abby T. Daniels shall continue only at the rate of twelve
dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

CHAP. 934. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Kunselman.

May 28, 1902 .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 806.]

States of America

in

Congress assembled,

That the

William Secretary of the man.

Kunsel-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William Kunselman , late of Company E, Ninth

Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 935. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Lafferty.

May 28, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James D. Lafferty, late of Company K, Fifty- eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 807.] James D. Lafferty. Pension increased.

CHAP. 936. -An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth A. Burrill.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Burrill, widow of Orrin A. Burrill, late of Company A, Fiftieth Regiment New York Volunteer Engineers , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 808. ]
Elizabeth A. Burrill. Pension.

CHAP. 937. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles F. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Smith, late second lieutenant Company K, Fifty-third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 28 , 1902 .

May 28, 1902. [Private , No. 809. ]
Charles F. Smith . Pension increased.

1418

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 938-940, 947. 1902 .

May 28, 1902.

CHAP . 938. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marietta Elizabeth

[Private, No. 810. ] Stanton.

Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United StMaanrtioent.ta Elizabeth States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marietta Elizabeth Stanton , widow of Thaddeus H.
Stanton, late brigadier-general, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 28, 1902.

CHAP. 939. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John B. Greenhalgh.

[Private, No. 811. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

JPoehnsniBo.nGrinecernehaaslegdh, . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John B. Greenhalgh, late of Company A, Seventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and Company D, Sixtieth

Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, May 28, 1902.

May 28, 1902. [Private, No. 812. ]
CPheanrslieosn Di.ncPraelamseedr..

CHAP. 940. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles D. Palmer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Charles D. Palmer, late of Company F, One hundred and fifty-ninth Regiment Ohio National Guard Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 28, 1902 .

May 31, 1902.

CHAP. 947. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Catharine F. Edmunds.

[Private , No. 813. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

muCnadthsa.rine F. Ed States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catharine F. Edmunds, widow of Frank H. Edmunds,

late major, First Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty- five dollars per month in lieu of that she is
now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Frank H. Edmunds until she reaches the age of

sixteen years.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 948-951 . 1902 .

1419

CHAP. 948.- An Act Granting a deed of quitclaim and release to Lorillard Spencer, his heirs and assigns, of all the right, title, and interest in and to certain land in the city of Newport, Rhode Island .

May 31 , 1902. [Private, No. 814.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Lorillard Spencer. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Granted quitclaim is hereby authorized and directed to execute, acknowledge , and deliver, idneeNdewtpoorcter, tRa.inI. land in the name of the United States of America, a deed of quitclaim and release to Lorillard Spencer, of Newport , Rhode Island , his heirs and assigns, of all the right, title, and interest which was granted to the United States of America by a deed from Elisha Brown to the United States of America , dated the fifteenth day of November , anno Domini eighteen hundred and eight , and recorded in volume eleven of the Land Evidence of the city of Newport, in the county of Newport, in the State of Rhode Island, at pages eleven and twelve, in and to the land described in said deed , upon the payment by him of the sum of twenty-five dollars.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 949. --An Act Granting a pension to Lucinda A. Sirwell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucinda A. Sirwell, the helpless and dependent daughter of William Sirwell, late colonel Seventy-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31, 1902.
[Private, No. 815. ]
Lucinda A. Sirwell. Pension.

CHAP. 950. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jesse C. Rhodabeck.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jesse C. Rhodabeck, late captain Company H, Eighteenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31, 1902.
[Private, No. 816. ]
Jesse C. Rhodabeck. Pension increased.

CHAP. 951. -An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth I. Ogden .

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth I. Ogden, foster mother of Lowell L. Campbell, late of Company G, Eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, such pension to cease and determine in the event of the allowance of a pension to the father of the deceased soldier.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 817. ]
Elizabeth I. Ogden. Pension.

1420

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 952-956. 1902.

May 31 , 1902.
[Private , No. 818.]
Amos Allport. Pension.

CHAP. 952. -An Act Granting a pension to Amos Allport.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amos Allport, late of Company G. One hundred and forty-seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31, 1902. [Private, No. 819. ]
Elias A. Calkins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 953. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias A. Calkins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias A. Calkins, late lieutenant- colonel Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31, 1902.
[Private, No. 820. ]
Albert Deits. Pension increased.

CHAP. 954. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert Deits.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert Deits, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , May 31 , 1902.

May 31, 1902 .
[Private, No. 821. ]
James F. Patton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 955. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James F. Patton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James F. Patton, late of Company G, Eleventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month, in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 956. -An Act Granting a pension to Benjamin E. Styles.

[Private, No. 822. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
BPensjiaomni.n E. Styles. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin E. Styles, late of Company I, Fiftieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 957-961 . 1902.

1421

CHAP. 957. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Delia E. Slocum.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Delia E. Slocum, widow of Aaron C. Slocum, late first lieutenant, Company E, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

[Private , No. 823. ] Delia E. Slocum. Pension increased.

CHAP. 958. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Otis R. Freeman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Otis R. Freeman , late surgeon Tenth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902 .
[Private, No. 824.]
Otis R. Freeman, Pension increased.

CHAP. 959. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel P. Milburn .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel P. Milburn , late of Company D, Thirteenth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902. [Private, No. 825.]
Samuel P. Milburn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 960. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Sheldon .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Sheldon , late of Company I , One hundredth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902.
[Private, No. 826. ]
William Sheldon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 961. -- An Act Granting a pension to Mary Louise Lowry.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Louise Lowry, the helpless and dependent daughter of Horatio B. Lowry, late major and quartermaster United States Marine Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

May 31 , 1902.
[Private, No. 827.]
Mary Louise Lowry. Pension.

Approved, May 31 , 1902.

1422

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 962-966. 1902 .

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 962. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edgar A. Hamilton.

[Private, No. 828.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

EPedngsaironA.inHcarmeialsteodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edgar A. Hamilton, late captain Company C , First Regiment New York Volunteer Mounted Rifles, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 963. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. De Graw.

[Private, No. 829. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
GPeeonrsgioenWi.ncDreeaGsreadw. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. De Graw, late of Company B, One hundred and fifty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him
a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31, 1902.

CHAP. 964. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Walter C. Tuttle.

[Private, No. 830.]
Walter C. Tuttle. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Walter C. Tuttle, late of Company F, Fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of
thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31, 1902.

CHAP. 965. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William M. Barstow.

[Private, No. 831. ]

William M. Bars Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

tow.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William M. Barstow, late of Company D, Twenty-

sixth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 966. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Temple.

[Private, No. 832. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
WPielnlsiioanm iHn.crTeeamspelde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . 1. CHS. 966-970 . 1902 .
laws, the name of William H. Temple, late of Company B, Fiftysecond Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

1423

CHAP. 967. --An Act Granting a pension to Hiram J. Springfield.

May 31, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 833. ] Hiram J. Spring-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the field. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram J. Springfield , late captain H. J. Springfield's company of scouts and guides, United States Volunteers, and
pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 968. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward R. Blain.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward R. Blain, late of Company K, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 834.]
Edward R. Blain. Pension increased.

CHAP. 969. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Wheeler.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Wheeler, late of Company A, Corps of Engineers, United States Army, and second lieutenant, Nineteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

[Private, No. 835. ] William H.Wheeler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 970. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie Cotter.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie Cotter, widow of Thomas Cotter, late of Company F , Thirteenth Regiment New York State Militia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

[Private, No. 836.]
Annie Cotter. Pension increased.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

1424

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 971-975. 1902.

May 31, 1902.

CHAP. 971. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Augustin M. Adams.

[Private, No. 837. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
PAeungsuisotnininMc.rAeadsaemds. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augustin M. Adams , late of Company H, First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31 , 1902. [Private, No. 838. ]
Ada Trowbridge. Pension increased.

CHAP. 972.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ada Trowbridge.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ada Trowbridge, widow of Joseph M. Trowbridge, late captain, Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 973. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elbert N. Remson.

[Private, No. 839. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

EPlebnesritonN. Remson. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elbert N. Remson , late of Company F, Ninetieth

Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31 , 1902. [Private, No. 840. ]
Presley P. Medlin. Pension.

CHAP. 974.-An Act Granting a pension to Presley P. Medlin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Presley P. Medlin , late acting assistant and contract surgeon, United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.

Approved, May 31 , 1902.

May 31 , 1902.

CHAP. 975. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Haltenhof.

[Private , No. 841. ] CPheanrslieosn Hianlctreeansheodf..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 975-979. 1902.
laws, the name of Charles Haltenhof, late of Company H, First Regiment Ohio Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

1425

CHAP. 976. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Whalen.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Whalen, late of Company C, One hundred and thirty - third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

[Private , No. 842.] John Whalen . Pension increased.

CHAP. 977. -- An Act Granting a pension to Jeremiah Horan.

May 31 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jeremiah Horan , late of Company A, First Regiment United States Infantry, war with Spain , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, May 31 , 1902.

[Private, No. 843. ] Jeremiah Horan. Pension .

CHAP. 978. -An Act Granting a pension to Hannah T. Knowles.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah T. Knowles , widow of William M. Knowles, late of the United States ship Independence, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, such pension to cease upon proof that the soldier is living.
Approved, May 31 , 1902 .

May 31 , 1902.
[Private, No. 844. ]
Hannah T.Knowles. Pension .

CHAP. 979. -An Act Granting a pension to Samantha B. Van Brocklin.

May 31 , 1902.

[Private, No. 845. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Samantha B. Van
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Brocklin.
Pension. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Samantha B. Van Brocklin, widow of George S.

Van Brocklin, late of Company C, Fiftieth Regiment New York

Volunteer Engineers , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .

Approved, May 31 , 1902.

VOL XXXII, PT 2- -13

1426

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 982, 988 , 990-992. 1902.

June 2, 1902.

CHAP. 982. --An Act Granting a pension to Adelbert L. Orr.

[Private, No. 846.] Adelbert L. Orr. Pension.
No deductions, etc.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Adelbert L. Orr, late a private, unassigned, Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventy-two dollars per month, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment, without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous

payments of pension .

Approved, June 2 , 1902.

June 3, 1902 [Private, No. 847. ]

CHAP . 988. -An Act To authorize the Light-House Board to pay to Chamblin,
Delaney and Scott the sum of one thousand seven hundred and four dollars and forty-six cents.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

anCdhaScmobtlti. n, Delaney States of America in Congress assembled, That the Light-House Board

Payment to.

be, and it is hereby, authorized to pay to Messrs. Chamblin , Delaney

An e, p. 556.

and Scott, of the city of Richmond , State of Virginia, the sum of one

thousand seven hundred and four dollars and forty -six cents out of the

appropriation for Marblehead light-house made by the Fifty-third Congress .

Approved, June 3, 1902 .

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 848. ]
John Housiaux . Pension increased.

CHAP. 990. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Housiaux .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John Housiaux, late of Company K, Fifth Regi-

ment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 849. ]
Gustavus C. Pratt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 991. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gustavus C. Pratt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Gustavus C. Pratt, late captain Company D , Seventeenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4 , 1902 .

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 850. ]
Benjamin Russell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 992. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Russell .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 992-996. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Russell, late of Company E, Fifth Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

1427

CHAP. 993. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles O. Baldwin.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles O. Baldwin, late second lieutenant Company E, Fourteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, to be paid to his legally constituted guardian.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

[Private, No. 851. ] Charles O. Baldwin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 994. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Warren Y. Merchant.

June 4, 1902.

[Private, No. 852. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Warren Y. MerStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the chant. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Warren Y. Merchant, late of Company L, First Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 995. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Phillips.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Phillips, late of Company G , Thirty-eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 853. ]
William Phillips. Pension increased .

CHAP. 996 .--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie E. Joseph .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie E. Joseph, widow of Brevet Brigadier- General Charles S. Russell, and also widow of George W. Joseph, late private, Company B, One hundred and thirty-second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 4 , 1902 .

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 854.]
Annie E. Joseph. Pension increased.

1428

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 997-1001 . 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 855.]
Amelia Engel. Pension.

CHAP. 997. -An Act Granting a pension to Amelia Engel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amelia Engel, widow of Valentine Engel , late of Company G, Seventy -fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, June 4 , 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 856. ]
Sarah F. Baldwin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 998.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah F. Baldwin.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah F. Baldwin , widow of William O. Baldwin, late surgeon Second Regiment District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902. CHAP. 999. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry J. Edge, alias
[Private, No. 857. ] Jason Edge.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United JaHsoennrEydJg.eE. dge, alias States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry J. Edge, alias Jason Edge, late of United States steamer Benton , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of eighteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 858. ] John P. Collier. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1000. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John P. Collier.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John P. Collier, late of Company A, Eleventh Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 859. ] Jesse H. Hubbard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1001. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jesse H. Hubbard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jesse H. Hubbard, late second lieutenant Company

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1001-1005 . 1902 .
H, Eleventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirtydollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

1429

CHAP. 1002. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Calvin N. Perkins.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Calvin N. Perkins, late of Company H, Thirtyseventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 4, 1902.

[Private , No. 860. ] Calvin N. Perkins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1003. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Vesta A. Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Vesta A. Brown , widow of William A. Brown , late of Company F , Seventeenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 861. ]
Vesta A. Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1004. -- An Act Granting a pension to He.ena Sudsburg.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helena Sudsburg, widow of Joseph M. Sudsburg, late colonel Third Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

[Private, No. 862. ]
Helena Sudsburg. Pension.

CHAP. 1005. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anne Dowery.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anne Dowery, widow of Edward Dowery, late of Company L, Tenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 863. ]
Anne Dowery. Pension increased.

1430

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1006-1010. 1902 .

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 864. ]
Oliver K. Wyman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1006. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver K. Wyman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver K. Wyman, late of First Battery, Vermont

Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1007. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Harrington,

[Private, No. 865. ]

William Harring Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

on.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William Harrington , late of Company I, Ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserves Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902 .

CHAP. 1008. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliphlet Noyes.

[Private, No. 866.]
Eliphlet Noyes. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliphlet Noyes, late of Company G , Thirtieth Regi-

ment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1009. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel A. Hall, alias

[Private, No. 867. ] William Knapp.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United WiDlalniiaemlKA.naHpalpl. , alias States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel A. Hall , alias William Knapp, late of Company H, Twentieth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4 , 1902 .

June 4, 1902 . [Private, No. 868.] GPenosrigoenWi.ncYroeuansegds..

CHAP. 1010. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Youngs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. 1. CHS. 1010-1014. 1902 .
laws, the name of George W. Youngs, late of Company D , Sixth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

1431

CHAP. 1011. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Hazzard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles H. Hazzard, late of Company G, Fortyeighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and paymaster's clerk, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 869.]
Charles H. Hazzard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1012. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary L. Doane.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary L. Doane, widow of Gustavus C. Doane, late captain, Second Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 870. ]
Mary L. Doane. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1013. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martha Clark.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 871.]
Martha Clark. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha Clark, widow of James P. Clark, late of

Company I, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her

a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is

now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death of Elmo J.

Proviso. Increase to cease on

Clark, helpless and dependent son of said James P. Clark, the addi- death of son.

tional pension herein granted shall cease and determine .

Approved, June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1014. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James P. McClure.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James P. McClure, late of Company H, Fourteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

[ Private, No. 872. ]
James P. McClure. Pension increased.

1432

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 1015-1019 . 1902 .

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 873. ]
SPetnespihoenn. A. Seavey.

CHAP. 1015. -An Act Granting a pension to Stephen A. Seavey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stephen A. Seavey, late of Company C, Twelfth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twelve dollars per month, the same to be paid to him without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or

erroneous payments of pension.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1016. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nimrod Headington.

[Private, No. 874.]

Nimrod

ton .

Heading

Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Nimrod Headington , late major, Thirty- fourth

Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 4 , 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 875.]
Amos Moulton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1017. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Amos Moulton.
Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amos Moulton , late of Company L, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 876. ]
James Welch. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1018. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Welch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Welch, late of Company G, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1019. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen M. Worthen.

[Private, No. 877. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
HPeenlseinoMn.inWcorretahseedn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1019-1023 . 1902.
laws, the name of Helen M. Worthen, widow of Harry N. Worthen, late lieutenant-colonel Fourth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

1433

CHAP. 1020. - An Act Granting a pension to John W. Smoot.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Smoot, late of Company A, Washington Light Infantry , Fourth Battalion District of Columbia Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 878. ]
John W. Smoot. Pension.

CHAP. 1021. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Horace L. Richardson. June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 879. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Horace L. RichardStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son.
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Horace L. Richardson, late of Company C , First
Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1022. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marcellus M. M.

June 4, 1902.

Martin, alias Marion M. Martin.

[Private, No. 880. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Marcellus M. M. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Martin, alias Marion Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the M.PeMnasritoinn.increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marcellus M. M. Martin , alias Marion M. Martin ,
late of Company F, United States Mounted Riflemen , war with Mex-
ico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1023.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eri W. Pinkham.

June 4, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eri W. Pinkham , late of Company E, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

[Private . No. 881. ]
Eri W. Pinkham . Pension increased.

1434

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1024-1028 . 1902.

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 882. ] JPeennnsiieonMinWcareganseerd ..

CHAP. 1024. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennie M. Wagner.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie M. Wagner, widow of Max Wagner, late second lieutenant Twenty -sixth Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain , and pay her a pension at the rate of twentyfive dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children

of said Max Wagner until they reach the age of sixteen years.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1025. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hannah A. Van Eaton.

[Private, No. 883.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
toHna. nnah A. Van Ea- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name Hannah A. Van Eaton , widow of Flavel H. Van Eaton,

late surgeon Eighth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902. [Private, No. 884. ]
soJno.nathan O. Thomp Pension increased .

CHAP. 1026. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jonathan O. Thompson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jonathan O. Thompson , late of Company G, First

Regiment Alabama Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 4 , 1902.

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1027. -An Act Granting a pension to Charlotte M. Howe.

[Private, No. 885. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

CPheanrsliootnt.e M. Howe. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charlotte M. Howe , widow of Rufus S. Howe, late

of Company D, Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infan-

try, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 4, 1902 .

June 4, 1902.

CHAP. 1028. - An Act Granting a pension to Samuel H. Chamberlin.

[Private, No. 886. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

beSrlaimnu.el H. Cham- States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1028-29, 1031 , 1034-35 . 1902. 1435
laws, the name of Samuel H. Chamberlin, late second lieutenant Company B, Fourth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 4, 1902 .

CHAP. 1029. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles T. Crooker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles T. Crooker, late of Company H, Tenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and Company C , Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 4, 1902.

June 4, 1902.
[Private, No. 887. ]
Charles T. Crooker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1031.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma L. Kimble.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma L. Kimble, widow of Thomas V. Kimble , late of Company F, Third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and major, Thirty-seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 5 , 1902 .

June 5, 1902.
[Private, No. 888. ]
Emma L. Kimble. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1034. -An Act For the relief of Levi Maxted.

June 6, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

[Private, No. 889. ]
Levi Maxted. Granted honorable

be, and he is hereby , authorized to remove the charge of desertion discharge.

against Levi Maxted, late of Company H, First Regiment Nebraska

Volunteer Infantry, and that he be granted an honorable discharge as of September first, eighteen hundred and sixty-five : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by

Proviso. No pay, etc.

virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, June 6, 1902.

CHAP. 1035. -An Act To remove the charge of desertion borne opposite the June 6, 1902.

name of Abram Williams.

[Private, No. 890. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Abram Williams. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War Military record cor-
be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to amend the military rected.

record of Abram Williams, formerly a private in Company B, Seventh

Michigan Cavalry Volunteers , so as to show that he died February

sixth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, and that he be held as not having deserted from the military service of the United States : Provided, That no pay, bounty , or other emoluments shall become due or pay-

Proviso. No pay, etc.

able by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, June 6, 1902.

1436

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1038-1042 . 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 891.]
Mary Etna Poole. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1038. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Etna Poole.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Etna Poole, widow of David Poole, late

captain Company F, Eleventh Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infan-

try, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1039. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Pitsar Ingram.

[Private, No. 892.]
Pitsar Ingram. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Pitsar Ingram , late of Company D, Sixty-fifth Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 7, 1902 .

June 7, 1902 .
[Private, No. 893.]
John Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1040. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Smith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Smith, late of Company D, Fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and Troop A, Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1041. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances C. Haughton.

[Private, No. 894. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

toFnr. ances C. Haugh- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frances C. Haughton , widow of Nathaniel Haugh-

ton, late lieutenant- colonel Twenty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per

month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , June 7, 1902 .

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 895. ]
Eliza J. West. Pension.

CHAP. 1042. --An Act Granting a pension to Eliza J. West.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza J. West, widow of Elisha B. West, late of

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1042-1046 . 1902 .
Companies B and D, Seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional for each of the minor children of the soldier until such children shall have arrived at the age of sixteen years .
Approved, June 7, 1902.

1437

CHAP. 1043. --An Act Granting a pension to Frances A. Tillotson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances A. Tillotson , widow of William T. Tillotson, late of Company B, First Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 896.]
Frances A. Tillotson. Pension.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1044. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to August Schill, alias June 7, 1902.

August Silville.

[Private, No. 897. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United August Schill, alias
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the AugusSilville. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of August Schill, alias August Silville , late of Com-
pany M, Fourth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that
he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7 , 1902.

CHAP. 1045. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Edward Price June 7, 1902.

Lance, alias Edward Price.

[Private, No. 898. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Charles Edward States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Price Lance, alias EdInterior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the waPrednsPiroincei.ncreased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Edward Price Lance, alias Edward Price,
late of Company E, Sixteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy
Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1046. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William C. Holcomb. June 7, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[ Private, No. 899. ] WPielnlsiiaomnCi.nHcorelacsoemdb. .

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William C. Holcomb , late of Company E, Fifth

Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

1438

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 1047-1051 . 1902.

June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1047. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William D. Tanner.

[Private, No. 900. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
WPienlsliioanm iDn.cTreaansneedr. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William D. Tanner, late of Company F, Fourth Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 901.]
Louisa White. Pension.

CHAP. 1048. -An Act Granting a pension to Louisa White.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louisa White, dependent and helpless daughter of Giles E. White, late captain Company A, Sixty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 902. ]
George W. Butler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1049. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Butler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Butler, late of Company G, First Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 903. ]
Andrew R. Jones. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1050. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew R. Jones.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew R. Jones, late of Company D, Seventeenth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- fourdollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 904. ]
James H. Dunn. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1051. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Dunn .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1051-1055 . 1902.
laws, the name of James H. Dunn , late captain of Company I, One hundred and sixty- ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

1439

CHAP. 1052. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Crist.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Crist, late of Company K, Two hundred and ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902 .

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 905. ]
John M. Crist. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1053. -An Act Granting a pension to Charles Blitz.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Blitz , late of Company C, Sixty -seventh Regiment New York National Guard Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 7, 1902 .

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 906. ]
Charles Blitz. Pension.

CHAP. 1054. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Evaline Jenkins.

June 7, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Evaline Jenkins, widow of David B. Jenkins, late sergeant, Company F, Second Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and first lieutenant Company C, Thirteenth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

[Private, No. 907. ]
Evaline Jenkins. Pension increased.

CHAP . 1055. -An Act Granting a pension to Zebulon A. Shipman.

June 7, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 908.]

States of America in Congress assembled,

That the

Secretary

of

the

Zebulon man.

A.

Ship

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Zebulon A. Shipman , late private, United States

Marine Corps, war with Spain.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

1440

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1056-1060 .

June 7, 1902. [Private, No. 909. ] PMeanrsgiaornetinMccrCeauseend.

CHAP. 1056. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret McCuen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe Unitea States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret McCuen , widow of Alexander McCuen, late captain Company E, Two hundred and third Regiment Pennsyl vania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902 .
[Private, No. 910. ]
Ole Steensland. Pension.

CHAP. 1057. -An Act Granting a pension to Ole Steensland.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ole Steensland, late of Company E, Fifteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 911.]
Mary Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1058. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Scott.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Scott, widow of Daniel L. Scott, late an unassigned private of the Eightieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1059. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William E. Ball.

[Private, No. 912. ]
William E. Ball. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William E. Ball, late of Company H, United States Mounted Rifles , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate

of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 913. ]
Matilda C. Clarke. Pension.

CHAP . 1060. -An Act Granting a pension to Matilda C. Clarke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Matilda C. Clarke , former widow of Alphonse

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1060-1064 . 1902.
Bietry , late of Company G, Tenth New York Volunteers , and Company A, One hundred and sixty-fifth New York Volunteers, and Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

1441

CHAP. 1061. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Topper.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Topper, late of Company C, One hundred and sixty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 7 , 1902.

June 7, 1902,
[Private, No. 914. ]
David Topper, Pension increased.

CHAP. 1062. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth G. Getty.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth G. Getty, widow of George W. Getty, late brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and colonel, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 915. ]
Elizabeth G. Getty. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1063. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Chamberlin .

June 7, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Chamberlin , late of Company M, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and Company E, Eleventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , June 7 , 1902.

[Private, No. 916.
George Chamberlin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1064. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eleanor Emerson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eleanor Emerson, widow of Warren C. Emerson , late major and additional paymaster, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 917.]
Eleanor Emerson. Pension increased.

Approved, June 7 , 1902 .

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -14

1442

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1065-1069 . 1902.

June 7, 1902 .

CHAP. 1065. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis W. Anderton.

[Private, No. 918. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
toFnr.ancis W. Ander States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Francis W. Anderton , late first lieutenant Company

I, Eleventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902 .

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 919.]
Melissa Burton. Pension.

CHAP. 1066. -An Act Granting a pension to Melissa Burton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Melissa Burton, widow of William Burton , late of
Company A, First Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.

CHAP. 1067. -- An Act Granting a pension to Arthur J. Bushnell.

[Private, No. 920. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

APrentshiuornJ.. Bushnell. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Arthur J. Bushnell, late of Company A, First Regiment South Dakota Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain , and pay him

a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, June 7 , 1902 .

June 7, 1902. [Private, No. 921. ]
WPielnslioanm iHn.crWehaisteed..

CHAP. 1068. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. White.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. White, late of Company I, One hundred and twenty -eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay

him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

June 7, 1902.
[Private, No. 922.]
Mary S. Downing. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1069.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary S. Downing.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1069, 1070. 1902.
laws, the name of Mary S. Downing, widow of Robert L. Downing, late of Company E, Sixty-ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 7, 1902.

1443

CHAP. 1070. -An Act For the relief of Thierman and Frost.

June 7, 1902 .

[Private, No. 923. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of theUnited Thierman and Frost. States of America in Congress assembled, That jurisdiction is hereby Claim referred to

given the Court of Claims, any statute of limitations to the contrary Court of Claims.

notwithstanding, to hear, try, and determine the claim of Henry Thierman and White Frost, late partners doing business under the firm name and style of Thierman and Frost, by reason of the alleged unlawful seizure and sale by the revenue officers of the United States

of the distillery property of the said Thierman and Frost in Concordia, in the State of Kentucky; and the said court shall have full power to determine whether said property was unlawfully seized and sold ; and if the same were unlawfully seized or sold , then the said court shall try and determine whether, under the then existing laws of the United States, the said Thierman and Frost sustained any damages by reason thereof and whether the Government is or was liable under such laws

for the damages sustained , limiting such damages to the reasonable value of the property seized and sold at the time of such seizure and sale; said case to be tried and determined under the laws , rules , and

regulations governing proceedings in said court and upon such evidence as is legally admissible under the ordinary laws and rules of

evidence as pursued in the practice of said court, hereby reserving to the Government the right to interpose any defense , whether legal or
equitable, that it may have to said cause of action , except only the
defenses based on the jurisdiction of the court and the statute of limProvisos.
' itations: Provided, however, That said action shall be commenced Commencement of
within six months after this Act shall go into effect : And provided suit. further, That in said action the said court shall try and determine the Proceedings.

question, notwithstanding any adjudication that may heretofore have been had, whether at the time of said seizure and sale there was any special tax due or owing by the said Thierman and Frost to the Government of the United States pertaining to said distillery , or growing

out of the operation of the same, or on the output or product thereof; and if any such tax was then due or owing to the Government of the United States, the said court shall determine the amount thereof and apply the same as a set-off to any amount that may be found to have been due the said Thierman and Frost as damages sustained by the.m by reason of the wrongful seizure and sale of said distillery property, and shall only enter a judgment in favor of the said Thierman and Frost for such balance, if any, as may be found to be due after applying as an offset any tax as aforesaid that may be found to be due with-

out awarding any interest to either party: And provided further, That either party to such action shall have the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States under the rules, laws, and regulations governing appeals in other cases from the Court of Claims.

Right of appeal.

Approved, June 7, 1902.

1444 FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1072, 1075, 1083, 1084 1902.

June 9, 1902.

CHAP. 1072. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frances H. Anthony.

[Private, No. 924. ]

Be it enactedby the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

nyF.rances H. Antho- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frances H. Anthony, widow of De Witt C. Anthony,

late lieutenant- colonel Twenty- third and colonel Sixty-sixth Regiments

Proviso.

Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty

dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving : Provided, how

Increase to cease on

death of child.

ever, That in the case of the death of the helpless child Myrtilia H.

Anthony, on whose account the pension of Frances H. Anthony is

increased, the pension of said Frances H. Anthony shall continue only

at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death

of said helpless child.

Approved, June 9, 1902.

June 10, 1902.

CHAP . 1075. -An Act For the relief of Lieutenant Jerome E. Morse.

[Private, No. 925. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Jerome E. Morse. Transfer on Navy

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary of the

retired list.

Navy be, and he is hereby, authorized and empowered to transfer

Lieutenant Jerome E. Morse , of the retired list of the United States

Navy, from the half-pay list to the seventy- five per centum pay list of 27R1.. S. , sec. 1588, P. retired officers, under section fifteen hundred and eighty - eight of the
Revised Statutes of the United States ; and the said transfer shall take

effect as of the passage of this Act.

Approved, June 10 , 1902.

June 13, 1902. [Private, No. 926.] GPenosrigoenCi.nTcirlealsmeadn..

CHAP. 1083. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George C. Tillman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George C. Tillman , late of Company C, First Regiment Alabama Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 13 , 1902.

June 13, 1902.

CHAP. 1084. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hattie M. Whitney.

[Private, No. 927. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PHaetntsiieonM.inWchrieatsneedy. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hattie M. Whitney, widow of Folliot A. Whitney.

late major, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she

is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of

the minor child of the said Folliot A. Whitney until he reaches the

age of sixteen years.

Approved, June 13 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1085-1087,1091 . 1902 .

1445

CHAP. 1085.-An Act For the relief of Charles H. Robinson.

June 13, 1902.

[Private, No. 928. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Charles H. RobinStates of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of seven hun- son.
dred and twenty dollars be allowed to Charles H. Robinson, former Relief of pension agent at Des Moines, Iowa, being the sum deposited by him

to cover a deficiency arising in his office, caused by the negligence of a clerk, and without blame or fault on the part of said Charles H.

Robinson , and that the aforesaid sum is hereby appropriated out of any moneys not otherwise appropriated.

Approved, June 13 , 1902.

CHAP. 1086. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles C. Washburn. June 13, 1902. [Private, No. 929.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Charles C. WashStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the burn. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles C. Washburn , late of Company C, Ninth Regiment United States Veteran Volunteers , and pay him a pension at
the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 13 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1087.- An Act Granting a pension to Emily Briggs.

June 13, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emily Briggs, dependent mother of James Briggs , late of Company G, Forty-seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 13, 1902 .

[Private, No. 930. ]
Emily Briggs. Pension.

CHAP. 1091. -An Act For the relief of George T. Winston, president of North CbaoraorlditnarusCtoelelsege of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, and W. S. Primrose, chairman .

June 14, 1902. [Private, No. 931.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War leNgoertohfCaArgorliicnualtCuorlebe, and is hereby, authorized and directed to relieve W. S. Primrose, anRdelMieecfhoaf.nic Arts. chairman of the board of trustees, and George T. Winston , president of the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, Raleigh, North Carolina , from all money responsibility for so much of the ordnance and ordnance stores issued to said college under its bonds
dated May twenty- eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety -four, and February eighteenth, nineteen hundred and one, as were destroyed by fire on November twenty-ninth , nineteen hundred and one.
Approved, June 14, 1902.

1446 FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1092, 1094, 1095. 1902.

June 16, 1902. [Private, No. 932. ] Preamble.

CHAP. 1092. -An Act For relief of Stanley and Patterson, and tc authorize a pay director of the United States Navy to issue a duplicate check.
Whereas it appears that Henry M. Denniston, pay director in the United States Navy, did, on the fifth day of February, nineteen hundred and one, make and issue a check, numbered four hundred and fifty-six thousand seven hundred and fourteen, bearing date of the said fifth day of February, nineteen hundred and one, upon the assistant treasurer of the United States at New York, in favor of Stanley and Patterson, for the sum of two thousand six hundred and eighty dollars and twenty-one cents , being in payment for electrical supplies furnished the United States Navy Department ; and
Whereas said check was, on the said fifth day of February , nineteen hundred and one, mailed by the said Henry M. Denniston to Stanley and Patterson, at thirty-two Frankfort street, New York City, New York, and was lost in transmission through the mails and has never been received by the said Stanley and Patterson ; and
Whereas the provision of the Act of February sixteenth , eighteen hundred and eighty-five, amending section thirty-six hundred and forty-six, Revised Statutes of the United States, authorizing United States disbursing officers and agents to issue di plicates of lost checks, apply only to checks drawn for two thousand ive hundred dollars or less: Therefore,

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United soSnt.anley and Patter States of America in Congress assembled, That said Henry M. DennisthDourpizleidc.ate check au- ton , or his successor in office, be, and hereby is, instructed to issue a
duplicate of said original check to Stanley and Patterson , under such
regulations in regard to its issuing and payment as have been prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the issuing of duplicate R.S. , sec. 3646, p . 717. checks under the provision of section thirty-six hundred and forty- six, Revised Statutes of the United States .

Approved, June 16 , 1902.

June 17, 1902. [Private, No. 933. ]

CHAP. 1094. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen A. B. Du Barry.

Helen Barry.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United B. Du States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Helen A. B. Du Barry, widow of Beekman Du

Barry, late brigadier-general and Commissary-General of Subsistence, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars

per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.

CHAP. 1095. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Levi Hatchett.

[Private, No. 934.]
Levi Hatchett. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Levi Hatchett, late of Company B, Sixty -fifth Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1096-1100 . 1902 .

1447

CHAP. 1096. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Carpenter.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Carpenter, late captain of Companies A and L. Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902.
[Private No. 935. ]
Robert Carpenter. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1097. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Griffith Evans.

June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Griffith Evans, late of Company B, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902.

[ Private, No. 936. ] Griffith Evans. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1098. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert H. Steifenhofer. June 17, 1902.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 937.] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the hoAflebre. rt H. SteifenInterior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert H. Steifenhofer, late of Company K, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902 .

CHAP. 1099.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hinkley G. Knights.

June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hinkley G. Knights , late of Company E, Thirtysecond Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 17, 1902.

[Private, No. 938. ]
Hinkley G. Knights. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1100. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Washburn.

June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 939.]
John Washburn. Pension increased.

1448

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1100-1104. 1902.
laws, the name of John Washburn, late of Company G, Second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and Company E, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902.

CHAP. 1101. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Israel Haller.

[Private, No. 940. ]
Israel Haller. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Israel Haller, late of Company H, Ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902. [Private, No. 941. ] James Van Zant. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1102. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Van Zant.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Van Zant, late acting second assistant engineer, United States Navy , and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902.

CHAP. 1103. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Van Riper.

[Private, No. 942.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

peWri. lliam H. Van Ri- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Van Riper, late of Company G, Fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.

CHAP. 1104. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. De Garis.

[Private, No. 943. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

WPielnlsiiaomn Gi.ncDreeaGsaerdis. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William G. De Garis , late of Company A, Fourth

Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1105-1109. 1902 .

1449

CHAP. 1105. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leath Gilliland.

June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leath Gilliland , widow of Andrew J. Gilliland , late of Company I, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of her minor child, George M. Gilliland , in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902.

[Private, No. 944.]
Leath Gilliland. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1106. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christianna Leach.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christianna Leach, widow of Parker W. Leach, late of the Twenty- eighth Company, Second Battalion Veteran Reserve Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 945.]
Christianna Leach. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1107. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louisa M. Macfarlane. June 17, 1902. [Private, No. 946.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the laLnoeu. isa M. MacfarInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louisa M. Macfarlane, widow of Michael B. Macfarlane, late of Battery B, Fifth Regiment United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902 .

CHAP. 1108. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Mathews.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Mathews, late of Company K, Seventeenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17 , 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 947.]
George W. Mathews. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1109. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Katharine Rains Paul. June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited [Private, No. 948. ]

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary

of

the

Katharine Paul.

Rains

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

1450

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 1109-1113. 1902 .
laws, the name of Katharine Rains Paul, widow of Charles Rodman. Paul, late lieutenant-colonel, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that sheis now receiving.
Approved, June 17 , 1902.

June 17, 1902. [Private, No. 949. ]
PEednwsiinonM.inGcroewadseedy. .

CHAP. 1110. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin M. Gowdey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edwin M. Gowdey, late of Company F , Second

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 17, 1902 .

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 950. ]
Martin Boice. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1111. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martin Boice.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martin Boice, late of Company D, Fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , June 17 , 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 951. ]
John W. Acker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1112. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Acker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Acker, late of Company D, Fifty-ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 17, 1902.

[June 17, 1902. ]

CHAP. 1113. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas W. Dodge.

[Private, No. 952.] TPehnosmiaosn iWn.crDeoadsgede..

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Thomas W. Dodge, late acting master United States

ship Young Rover, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, June 17, 1902.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1114-1118. 1902.

1451

CHAP. 1114. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis Scott, late of Company E, Sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 953.]
Francis Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1115. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George G. Sabin .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George G. Sabin, late of Company D, Sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and Company H, Ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 954.]
George G. Sabin. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1116.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Hunt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Hunt, late of Company E, First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902 .

June 17, 1902. [Private, No. 955. ]
HPennsriyonHuinnctr.eased.

CHAP. 1117. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles G. Howard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles G. Howard , late first lieutenant Company A, Fourteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 956. ]
Charles G. Howard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1118. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Murphy.

June 17, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That theSecretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[Private, No. 957. ]
John Murphy. Pension increased.

1452

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1118-1120, 1124. 1902.
laws, the name of John Murphy, late of Company C, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17 , 1902 .

June 17, 1902.

CHAP. 1119. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew J. Fogg.

[Private, No. 958.]
Andrew J. Fogg. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew J. Fogg, late first lieutenant Company B,

Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 17, 1902.

June 17, 1902.
[Private, No. 959. ]
Peter Dugan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1120. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter Dugan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Dugan, late of the United States steamship Mound City, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 17, 1902 .

June 18, 1902.

CHAP. 1124. -An Act For the relief of the persons who sustained damage by

the explosion of an ammunition chest of Battery F, Second United States Artillery, [Private, No. 960.] July sixteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-four.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

leErxyploasmiomnunoif tairtoiln- States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of fifteen thou-

chest. Chicago, Ill. Relief

sand eight hundred and forty-five dollars and twenty-three cents , being

damaged boyf. persons the sum found just by a board of officers convened at Chicago, July

seventeenth, eighteen hundred and ninety -four, under Special Orders, Numbered Seventy-two, issued by command of Major-General Miles,

of the Department of the Missouri, which sum is recommended by him,

with the concurrence of the then Major- General Commanding the

Army, be, and the same is hereby , appropriated to pay the awards of said board, according to the following schedule, as set forth in their

report made on November third, eighteen hundred and ninety - four, and

published in Senate Executive Document Numbered Twenty-one , third session Fifty- third Congress, to wit: P. J. Ryan, one thousand three hundred and seven dollars ; Charles R. Cave, one thousand eight hun-

dred and forty dollars and sixty-one cents ; Edward C. Huling, seven hundred and forty-two dollars and twenty-six cents ; Jacob R. Custer,

seven hundred and seventeen dollars and eighty-three cents ; Herman Lehman, eight hundred and twenty -nine dollars and seventy- five cents ;

Herman Grossman, seven hundred and seventy dollars ; Philip W.

Raber, one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight dollars and ninety-

nine cents ; F. A. Devlin, lessee , one hundred and sixty dollars ; estate of Samuel B. Foster, deceased, one thousand six hundred and ninety-

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1124-1127. 1902.
nine dollars and fifty cents ; Amelia H. Dodge, one thousand four hundred and ninety - five dollars and eighty - four cents ; Frederick A. Howe, eight hundred and ninety-three dollars and six cents ; Helen Palmer , nine hundred and forty-six dollars and seventy-five cents ; James Wright, one thousand two hundred and thirteen dollars and sixtyeight cents ; W. H. Godair, two hundred and fifty-eight dollars and four cents; J. W. Morrison , forty-seven dollars and seventy- seven cents; Mrs. J. E. Ellen, twenty-five dollars ; W. W. Morrill , fifty dollars; Silas H. Finch, fifty- four dollars and thirty-nine cents ; David Mayer, lessee, forty- five dollars ; Newton Morganroth , one hundred and twenty-five dollars ; estate of H. N. Stephens , deceased, lessee , twelve dollars and fifty-five cents ; John W. Byers, one hundred and five dollars and thirty- three cents ; Edward D. Murray, one hundred dollars ; Arthur W. Allyn , ninety -nine dollars and fifteen cents ; Emilie J. Smith, trustee, nineteen dollars ; T. A. Keene, fifty dollars ; Hannah Sullivan , forty dollars ; Armory Warehouse Company, eighteen dollars ; W. F. Horn, agent, twenty-five dollars and ninety-one cents ; Alice York, three hundred and five dollars ; total, fifteen thousand eight hundred and forty-five dollars and twenty-three cents.
Approved, June 18 , 1902.

1453

CHAP. 1125. -An Act Granting a pension to Lizana D. Streeter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lizana D. Streeter, widow of Buell G. Streeter, late surgeon Fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, June 18 , 1902.

June 18, 1902.
[Private, No. 961. ]
Lizana D. Streeter. Pension.

CHAP. 1126. --An Act Granting a pension to Dennis J. Kelly.

June 18, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dennis J. Kelly, late of Company L, Third Regiment Virginia Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved , June 18 , 1902.

[Private, No. 962. ]
Dennis J. Kelly. Pension.

CHAP. 1127. -An Act Granting a pension to John Conter.

June 18, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Conter, late of Company I, Tenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 18 , 1902.

[Private, No. 963.]
John Conter. Pension.

1454

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 1128-1132. 1902 .

June 18, 1902.

CHAP. 1128. -An Act Granting a pension to Frances L. Ackley.

[Private, No. 964. ] PFernasnicoens. L. Ackley.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances L. Ackley, late a nurse in the medical

department, United States Navy , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, June 18, 1902 .

June 18, 1902.

CHAP. 1129. -An Act Granting a pension to Forrest E. Andrews.

[Private, No. 965. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

PFeornrseisotnE. . Andrews. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Forrest E. Andrews, late of Battery I, Sixth Regiment United States Artillery, war with Spain.

Approved, June 18, 1902 .

June 18, 1902. [Private, No. 966. ]
George W. Barry. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1130. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Barry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Barry, late of Company H, Second Regiment United States Volunteer Sharpshooters, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 18, 1902.

June 18, 1902. [Private, No. 967. ] HPaernrsiieotn.T. Milburn.

CHAP. 1131. -An Act Granting a pension to Harriet T. Milburn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harriet T. Milburn, widow of John T. Milburn , late

captain Company B, Tenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 18 , 1902.

June 18, 1902.
[Private, No. 968.]
Archer Bartlett. Pension.

CHAP. 1132. -An Act Granting a pension to Archer Bartlett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Archer Bartlett, late of Company K, First Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 18 , 1902 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1133 , 1134, 1141 , 1142. 1902. 1455

CHAP. 1133.-An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Bailey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Bailey, widow of Charles T. Bailey , late of Companies D and G, Thirty-fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said Charles T. Bailey until they reach the age of sixteen years .
Approved, June 18 , 1902.

June 18, 1902.
[ Private, No. 969.]
Mary A. Bailey Pension.

CHAP. 1134. -An Act Granting a pension to Eleanore F. Adams.

June 18, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eleanore F. Adams, widow of William S. Adams, late acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 18 , 1902.

[ Private , No. 970. ]
Eleanore F. Adams. Pension .

CHAP. 1141. -An Act To place Henry Biederbick, Julius R. Frederick, Francis June 21, 1902.

Long, and Maurice Connell on the retired list of enlisted men of the Army.

[Private, No. 971. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and he Henry Biederbick, is hereby, authorized to cause Henry Biederbick, Julius R. Frederick, Julius R. Frederick.
Francis Long, and Maurice Connell , survivors of the Lady Franklin MaPulraicceedCoonnnelrle.tired Bay expedition, to be enlisted as first-class sergeants of the Signal list. Corps of the Army and to place them on the retired list of the Army, with the pay and allowances, from and after the passage of this Act, of first-class sergeants of the Signal Corps who have been retired after continuous active service of fifteen years.

Approved, June 21 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1142. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David M. McKnight. June 21, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David M. McKnight, late second lieutenant Company B, One hundred and thirty- eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 21 , 1902.

[Private, No. 972.j DPeanvsiidoMn.iMnccrKenaisgedh.t.

1456

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1143-1147 . 1902 .

June 21, 1902.

CHAP. 1143. --An Act Granting a pension to William C. Hickox.

[Private, No. 973.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

WPielnsliioanm. C. Hickox. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William C. Hickox , late of Company G, One hundred

and fifty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month .

Approved, June 21 , 1902 .

June 21, 1902.

CHAP. 1144. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Levi H. Collins.

[Private, No. 974. ]
Levi H. Collins. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Levi H. Collins, late of Company A, Eighth Regi-

ment, Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 21 , 1902.

June 21, 1902. [Private, No. 975. ]
Franklin Snyder. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1145. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin Snyder.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin Snyder, late of Company D, Eleventh

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 21 , 1902.

June 21, 1902.
[Private, No. 976. ]
Henry I. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1146. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry I. Smith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry I. Smith, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 21 , 1902 .

June 21, 1902.

CHAP. 1147. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Solomon P. Brockway.

[Private, No. 977.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

waSyol. omon P. Brock States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Solomon P. Brockway, late major Ninth Regiment

Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 21 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 1148-1150 , 1152.

1457

CHAP. 1148. -An Act Granting a pension to Nelson Johnson .

June 21, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nelson Johnson , late of Company A, Third Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month , the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and time of payment, without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved, June 21 , 1902 .

[ Private, No. 978. ] Nelson Johnson. Pension.

CHAP. 1149. -An Act Granting a pension to Wesley Brummett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pensions laws, the name of Wesley Brummett, late of Company F, Twentyseventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension .
Approved, June 21 , 1902.

June 21 , 1902.
[Private, No. 979. ]
Wesley Brummett. Pension .

CHAP. 1150. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Culver.

June 21, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Culver, widow of Joshua B. Culver, late colonel Thirteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month .
Approved, June 21 , 1902.

[Private, No. 980. ] Mary E. Culver. Pension .

CHAP. 1152. -An Act To correct the record of Michael Hayes.

June 23, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 981.]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War MGircahnateedl Hhaoyneosr.able be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to correct the military discharge.

record of Michael Hayes, late of Company H, Sixty -ninth New York

Infantry Volunteers, and to grant him an honorable discharge from

such organization and remove the charge of desertion standing against him as a member thereof : Provided, That no pay, bounty , or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, June 23, 1902.

VOL XXXII , PT 2--15

1458 FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1153 , 1162-1165. 1902.

June 23, 1902.
[Private, No. 982.]
W. C. Taylor. Payment to.

CHAP. 1153. -An Act For the relief of W. C. Taylor.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to W. C. Taylor, of Mobile, Alabama, the sum of two thousand dollars as compensation for the loss of the steel barge Ora, while in service of the Government during the late war with Spain, on a voyage between Mobile, Alabama, and Santiago de Cuba, said loss having been caused by defective and insufficient towlines and the absence of any crew on board the barge to look after her safety, all of which occurred without any fault on the part of the owner of said barge , the said W. C. Taylor, of Mobile, Alabama.
Approved, June 23, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1162. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Th

[Private, No. 983. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
PWeinlsliioanm iHn.cTrheaosmeads. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William H. Thomas, late second lieutenant Company

I, and first lieutenant and adjutant Fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1163. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louisa A. Crosby.

[Private, No. 984. ]
Louisa A. Crosby. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louisa A. Crosby, widow of Pierce Crosby, late

rear-admiral , United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 985. ] James E. McNair. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1164. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James E. McNair.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. McNair, late first lieutenant Company K, Sixth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1165. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to R. Sherman Lang-

[Private, No. 986. ] worthy.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
woRr.thSyh. erman Lang States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1165-1169. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of R. Sherman Langworthy, late of Company B, One hundred aud seventeenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

1459

CHAP. 1166. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary Florence Von Steinwehr.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [ Private , No, 987. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the StMeainrwyeFhlro. rence Von Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Florence Von Steinwehr, widow of Adolph Von Steinwehr, late brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1167. --An Act Granting a pension to Isabella H. Irish .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isabella H. Irish, widow of Joseph E. Irish, late post chaplain, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 988 ]
Isabella H. Irish. Pension

CHAP. 1168. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Linda W. Slaughter.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Linda W. Slaughter, widow of Benjamin F. Slaughter, late surgeon, Fifty- fifth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lie of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 989. ]
LindaW. Slaughter. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1169. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William D. Stites.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William D. Stites, late of Company M, Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 990. ]
William D. Stites. Pension increased.

1460

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1170-1174 . 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 991.]
Thomas Hannah. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1170. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Hannah .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Hannah, late of Company F, Fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 992. ]
Lewis G. Latour. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1171. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis G. Latour.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis G. Latour, late of Company H, Fourteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 993. ]
Edward N. Goff. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1172. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward N. Goff.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward N. Goff, late of Company H, First Regi ment Connecticut Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private , No. 994. ]
Henry W. Tryon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1173. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry W. Tryon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry W. Tryon , late first lieutenant Company G, Twenty-seventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 995.]
William Kelley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1174. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Kelley .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 1174-1178.
laws, the name of William Kelley , late of Companies A and B, Sixteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1461

CHAP. 1175. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin S. Harrower. June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin S. Harrower, late captain Battery G, First Regiment Indiana Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 996. ] Benjamin S. HarPension increased.

CHAP. 1176.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Ridinger.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Ridinger, late of Company A, Ninety- third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

[ Private , No. 997. ]
Daniel Ridinger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1177. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joshua Weaver.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joshua Weaver, late of Company D, Thirty- eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

[Private, No. 998. ]
Joshua Weaver. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1178. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James S. Myers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James S. Myers, late of Company F, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 999.] JPaemnseisonS. iMnycererass.ed.

1462

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1179-1183.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1179. --An Act Granting a pension to Samuel J. , Christopher, and Jane

[Private, No. 1000. ] Vickers.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

phSearm, uaenld JJ.a,nCehrViisctko- States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

ers . Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the names of Samuel J. Vickers, Christopher Vickers, and Jane

Vickers, invalid and dependent children of Thomas Vickers , late of

Company A, Ninety -sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay them jointly a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, said

pension to cease and determine only upon the death of the last survivor.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private , No. 1001. ]
EPemnmsiaonF.inSchrielalsiengd .

CHAP. 1180. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma F. Shilling.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma F. Shilling, widow of John Shilling , late first lieutenant Company H, Third Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1002. ]
PHeennsriyonLoioncrrReeasgeedr..

CHAP. 1181. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Loor Reger.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Loor Reger, late of Company K, Eleventh

Regiment United States Infantry , war with Mexico, and Company H,

Eighty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him

a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1003. ]
John A. Reilley. Pension.

CHAP. 1182. -An Act Granting a pension to John A. Reilley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Reilley, late of Company B, First Battalion Fremont's Rangers, Missouri Home Guards Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1004. ] PPeetnesrioJ.n Oinsctreerahsaeuds..

CHAP. 1183. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter J. Osterhaus.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 1183-1187 . 1902 .
pension roli, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter J. Osterhaus, late major-general United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

1463

CHAP. 1184. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Otis A. Barlow.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [ Private, No. 1005. ] Otis A. Barlow.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Otis A. Barlow, late of Company B, Thirty- fourth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1185. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Betsey Gumm.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Betsey Gumm , widow of Peter H. Gumm , late of Company B, Eighty-first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1006. ]
Betsey Gumm . Pension increased.

CHAP. 1186. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oceana B. Irwin.
Be i enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oceana B. Irwin , widow of John Irwin , late rearadmiral, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1007. ]
Oceana B. Irwin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1187. --An Act Granting a pension to Fredereka Seymore.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fredereka Seymore, widow of George Seymore, late of Company F, Twentieth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said George Seymore until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1008. ]
Fredereka Seymore. Pension.

1464

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1188-1192 . 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1009. ]
Ann Comins, Pension increased .

CHAP. 1188. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann Comins.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann Comins , widow of Job Comins, late acting third assistant engineer, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1010. ]
Robert Lemon. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1189. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Lemon.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Lemon, late of Company H, Seventy - eighth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1011. ]
Nelson W. Wade. Pension.

CHAP. 1190. --An Act Granting a pension to Nelson W. Wade.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nelson W. Wade, late of Company G, Twenty-first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1012. ] APennnsaioMna. y Hogan .

CHAP. 1191. --An Act Granting a pension to Anna May Hogan.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna May Hogan, widow of John Hogan, late of Company C, Thirty-fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1192. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Queen Esther Grimes.

[Private, No. 1013. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
QPueneseinonEsitnhcerreGarsiemde. s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Queen Esther Grimes, widow of William H. Grimes,

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1192-1196 . 1902 .
late of Company H, Eleventh Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu ef that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

1465

CHAP. 1193. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Breckons.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Breckons, widow of Edward R. Breckons , late second lieutenant Company F, One hundred and twenty-fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1014. ]
Mary Breckons. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1194.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maggie L. Reaver.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maggie L. Reaver, widow of Henry A. Reaver, late of Company C, First Regiment Potomac Home Brigade Maryland Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

[ Private, No. 1015. ]
Maggie L. Reaver. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1195. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis M. McAdams. June 27, 1902.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private , No. 1016. ] States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the FPreannsciiosnMi.nMcrceAadseadm. s. Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis M. McAdams, late of Company A, Tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserves Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 1196. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Irvine.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Irvine , late of Company G, Forty- eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1017.]
James Irvine . Pension increased.

1466

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1197-1201 . 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1018.]
Jemima McClure. Pension.

CHAP. 1197. -- An Act Granting a pension to Jemima McClure.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jemima McClure , widow of James R. McClure, late
of Company L, First Regiment Indiana Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor chiid of said James R. McClure until he reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1198. -An Act Granting a pension to Hester A. Farnsworth.

[Private, No. 1019.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited

Hester A. Farns States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

worth .

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hester A. Farnsworth , dependent mother of Edward Farnsworth, late of Company C, Twelfth Regiment United States

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1199. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dudley Cary.

[Private, No. 1020.]
Dudley Cary. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dudley Cary, late of Company D, Forty-sixth

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1200. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Barrett.

[Private, No. 1021. ]
Charles Barrett. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Barrett, late of Company A, Forty-sixth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1022.]
John M. Wheeler. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1201. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Wheeler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John M. Wheeler, late principal musician Twenty-

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1201-1205 . 1902 .
seventh Regiment Illinois Volunter Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1467

CHAP. 1202. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Whitty.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Whitty, widow of Edward P. Whitty, alias Park Whittemore, late of Company M, First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Edward P. Whitty , alias Park Whittemore, until he reaches the age of sixteen years .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1023. ]
Elizabeth Whitty. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1203. -An Act Granting a pension to Fannie Frost.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie Frost, widow of Robert Frost, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1024. ]
Fannie Frost. Pension.

CHAP. 1204. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Everitt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Everitt , late of Company F, First Regiment Potomac Home Brigade (Thirteenth) Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27,' 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1025.]
John H. Everitt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1205. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram H. Thomas.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram H. Thomas, late of Company I, First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1026. ]
Hiram H. Thomas. Pension increased .

1468

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1206-1210 . 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1206. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cynthia J. Shattuck.

[Private, No. 1027. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
PCeynnstihoina iJn.cSrheaatsteudc.k. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cynthia J. Shattuck, widow of George F. Shattuck,

late captain Company B, Sixth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1207. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edgar T. Chamberlin.

[Private, No. 1028.]

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

linE.dgar T. Chamber States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Edgar T. Chamberlin , late of Company H, Eighteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1029. ]

CHAP. 1208. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William R. Raymond.

William R.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

mond .

Ray- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William R. Raymond, late of Company K, Third

Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1209. - An Act Granting a pension to Martha E. Kendrick.

[Private, No. 1030. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
MPaernstihoanE.. Kendrick. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha E. Kendrick, widow of William H. Ken-
drick, late second lieutenant Captain E. E. Mizell's company , Florida

Volunteers, Seminole Indian war , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1031.]
Thomas D. Utter. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1210. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas D. Utter.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1210-1214 . 1902 .
laws, the name of Thomas D. Utter, late of Company B, Fifty- ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

1469

CHAP. 1211. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin Young.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edwin Young, late of Company A, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1032.]
Edwin Young. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1212. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Esther D. Haslam.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Esther D. Haslam, widow of Thomas Haslam, late second lieutenant Company K, Twenty- sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[ Private . No. 1033.] Esther D. Haslam. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1213. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Craine.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Craine, late of Company A, Eighth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1034. ]
John W. Craine. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1214. -An Act Granting a pension to Henrietta Gottweis.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henrietta Gottweis, dependent stepmother of Frederick Koenemann, late of Company F, Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

[Private, No. 1035 ] Henrietta Gottweis
Pension.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

1470

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 1215-1219 . 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
Private, No. 1036. ]
Ellen W. Rice. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1215. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ellen W. Rice.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen W. Rice, widow of Francis G. Rice, late second lieutenant Company I, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1037.] arWdislolni. am W. Rich-

CHAP. 1216. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William W. Richardson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William W. Richardson , late of Company F, Thirtythird Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1038. ]
Rachel Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1217. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rachel Brown.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rachel Brown, widow of James Brown, late major Seventieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1039.]
Alfred Hatfield . Pension.

CHAP. 1218. -An Act Granting a pension to Alfred Hatfield.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alfred Hatfield , late of Company I, Twenty-third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month , the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment, without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1040.]
Henry Runnels. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1219. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Runnels.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1219-1223. 1202.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Runnels, late captain Company E , Eighteenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

1471

CHAP. 1220. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin F. Shearer. June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1041. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the BPensjiaomniinnFc.rSehaesaerde. r. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin F. Shearer, late of Company E, Thirtysecond Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

CHAP. 1221. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles P. Maxwell.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles P. Maxwell, late of Company G, Fortythird Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 1042. ] Charles P. Maxwell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1222. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles E. Miller.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles E. Miller, late of Company F, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 1043.] Charles E. Miller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1223. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to David T. Bruck.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David T. Bruck, late hospital steward , Fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 1044. ] David T. Bruck.
Pension increased.

1472

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1224-1228.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1045.]
John Revley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1224. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Revley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Revley, late of Company A, Fifty- fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fourteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1046. ]
James F. Gray. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1225. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James F. Gray.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James F. Gray, late of Companies G and I, Third Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1226. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Campbell.

[Private, No. 1047. ] JPoehnsniWon.Cinacmrpebaesledl..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Campbell, late regimental quartermaster Seventh Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1227. - An Act Granting a pension to James E. Dickey.

[Private, No. 1048.]
James E. Dickey. Pension.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. Dickey , late of Captain McClintock's company, Kentucky Home Guards, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1049.] PMeanrstihoanA. . Cornish.

CHAP. 1228. -An Act Granting a pension to Martha A. Cornish.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha A. Cornish, widow of James M. Cornish,

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1228-1232 . 1902 .
late of Company G, Tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1473

CHAP. 1229. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Johann Conrad Haas. June 27, 1902. [ Private, No. 1050.]
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Conrad
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the HaJaosh.ann Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Johann Conrad Haas, late of Company B, Thirtyfifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is
now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1230. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Swan.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Swan, late chief bugler, Twelfth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

[ Private, No.1051. ] Thomas Swan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1231. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Florian V. Sims.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Florian V. Sims, widow of Alexander Sims, late of Company G, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the soldier until such child shall have arrived at the age of sixteen years, in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1052. ]
Florian V. Sims. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1232. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Bortle.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Bortle, late of Company E, Twenty- eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , June 27 , 1902 . VOL XXXII , PT 2-16

[ Private , No. 1053.] Samuel Bortle.
Pension increased.

1474

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1233-1237 . 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1233. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William P. Schott,

[Private, No. 1054. ] alias Jacob Schott.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited aliWaislJlaicaomb PSc.hSocthto. tt, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William P. Schott, alias Jacob Schott, late of Com-
pany F, Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1055. ]
Robert Watts. Pension .

CHAP. 1234. -An Act Granting a pension to Robert Watts.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Watts, late of Company H, Third Regiment United States Volunteer Engineers, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1235. -An Act Granting a pension to Carrie B. Farnham.

[Private, No. 1056.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United CPaernrsiieonB.. Farnham. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Carrie B. Farnham, widow of Wilson H. Farnham ,

late of Company F, Ninety-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1057. ]
Mary J. Adams. Pension .

CHAP. 1236. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Adams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Adams, widow of John Adams, late of Company A, First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, such pension, however, to cease upon proof that said John Adams is still living.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1237. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William W. H. Davis.

[Private, No. 1058. ]

William

W.

H.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Davis.

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1237-1241 . 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William W. H. Davis , late colonel One hundred and fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1475

CHAP. 1238. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert G. Scroggs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert G. Scroggs, late assistant surgeon One hundred and thirty-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1059.]
Robert G. Scroggs. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1239. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Esek B. Chandler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Esek B. Chandler, late principal musician Fiftysecond Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1060. ]
Esek B. Chandler, Pension increased.

CHAP. 1240. -An Act Granting a pension to Nancy M. Williams.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Siates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1061.]
Nancy M. Williams Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy M. Williams, widow of Thomas B. Williams ,

late surgeon, One hundred and twenty-first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1241. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Smith.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Smith , late of Company E, Eighty- fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1062. ]
John H. Smith. Pension increased.

1476

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 1242-1246 . 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1063. ] PMeanrstihoan.G. Young.

CHAP. 1242. -An Act Granting a pension to Martha G. Young.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha G. Young, mother of John G. Young, late of Battery A, Utah Light Artillery, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, such pension to cease in the event of the allowance of a pension to the former widow of the said John G. Young to cover any period subsequent to the passage of this Act.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1243. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard G. Watkins.

[Private, No. 1064.]

Richard G. Watkins. Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard G. Watkins, late ordinary seaman, United

States Navy, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1065.]
Clara C. Hawks. Pension.

CHAP. 1244. -An Act Granting a pension to Clara C. Hawks.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Clara C. Hawks, the former widow of William M. Ball, late of Company H, Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1245. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph D. McClure.

[Private, No. 1066. ]

Beit enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

JPoesnespihonDi.nMcrceCalsuerde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph D. McClure, late of Company F, Thirtythird Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1246. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. McCarter.

[Private, No. 1067. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

CaWrtielr.liam H. Me- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1246-1250. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. McCarter, late of Company D, Third Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and Company A, Thirtythird Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1477

CHAP. 1247.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gibboney F. Hoop.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gibboney F. Hoop, late surgeon Eighty- fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[ Private, No. 1068. ] GPienbsbioonneyinFc.reHaosoepd..

CHAP. 1248. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Moses S. Curtis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Moses S. Curtis, late of Company E, Fourteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fourteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1069. ]
Moses S. Curtis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1249. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Pierson L. Shick.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1070. ]
Pierson L. Shick. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Pierson L. Shick, late of Company G, One hundred and ninety-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1250. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Holbrook.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Holbrook, the former widow of Frank Wyman, late of Company A, First Regiment Oregon Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 1071. ] MPeanrsyioEn. . Holbrook.

1478

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1251-1255 . 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1072. ]
Nelson Churchill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1251. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nelson Churchill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Nelson Churchill, late of Company D, Twentysecond Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1073. ]
JPeonhsnioHn. iCnrcarwefaoserdd.

CHAP. 1252. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Crawford.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Crawford, late of Company D, One hundred and first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1992.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1074.]
Peter T. Norris. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1253. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter T. Norris.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter T. Norris, late of Company C, Fortieth Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1075. ]
Edgar A. Stanley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1254. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edgar A. Stanley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edgar A. Stanley, late of Company I , Fourth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1255. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth J. Eagon.

[Private, No. 1076.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United PEleinzsaiboenthinJc.rEeaasgeodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Elizabeth J. Eagon, widow of Lafayette A. Eagon,

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1255-1259. 1902.
late of Company N, Sixth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

1479

CHAP. 1256. --An Act Granting a pension to Isaac M. Pangle.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac M. Pangle, late of Company A , One hundred and ninety-eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1077. ]
Isaac M. Pangle. Pension.

CHAP. 1257. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Finegan.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Finegan, late second-class fireman , United States steamship Housatonic, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 1078. ] Thomas Finegan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1258. --An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Tisdale.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Tisdale, the former widow of Moses C. Bartlett, late of Company B, Thirty -fifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

[Private, No. 1079. ]
Margaret Tisdale. Pension.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1259. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louisa N. Grinstead. June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Louisa N. Grinstead , widow of John J. Grinstead, late of Company B, Twelfth Regiment United States Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

[Private, No. 1080. ]
Louisa N. Grinstead. Pension increased.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

1480

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS . 1260-1264. 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1081. ]
TPehnosmiaosn. H. Devitt.

CHAP. 1260. -An Act Granting a pension to Thomas H. Devitt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas H. Devitt, the helpless and dependent son of Thomas Devitt, late of Company D, One hundred and eighty- seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1261. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Warner.

[Private, No. 1082. ]
William Warner. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Warner, late of Company A, Two hundredth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1083.]
Mary J. Gillam, Pension increased.

CHAP. 1262 .--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary J. Gillam.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Gillam, widow of James Gillam , late of

Company K, Seventy-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1263. -An Act Granting a pension to Angeline H. Taylor.

[Private, No. 1084. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
APenngseiloinn.e H. Taylor. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Angeline H. Taylor, widow of William Taylor, late

major Fortieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a

pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1085.]
Charles E. Pettis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1264. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles E. Pettis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1264-1268 . 1902.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles E. Pettis , late of Company E, Twenty- first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1481

CHAP. 1265. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Lipps.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Lipps, widow of George W. Lipps , late of Company K, Fortieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1086.]
Mary A. Lipps. Pension .

CHAP. 1266. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac Gibson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac Gibson, late major Second Battalion, Sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1087.]
Isaac Gibson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1267. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Robertson. June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Robertson, late of Company G, Twentysixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 1088. ] John A. Robertson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1268. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jackson L. Wilson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jackson L. Wilson , late of Company E, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1089. ]
Jackson L. Wilson. Pension increased .

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

1482

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1269-1273. 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1269. -An Act Granting a pension to Christopher S. Stephens.

[Private, No. 1090.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

StCehphreinss.topher S. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christopher S. Stephens, late of Captain Chapman's

company, New Mexico Mounted Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.,
[Private, No. 1091. ]
Charles Olson. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1270. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Olson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Olson, late of Company K, Fifteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[ Private, No. 1092. ]
Susan Walker. Pension.

CHAP. 1271. --An Act Granting a pension to Susan Walker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Susan Walker, the former widow of James H. Crysler, late of Company B, Fourteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1093. ]
John A. Eveland. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1272. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Eveland.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Eveland, late of Company G, Ninetieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902 .
[Private , No. 1094. ]
Jesse M. Peck. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1273. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jesse M. Peck.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS . 1273-1277. 1902 .
laws , the name of Jesse M. Peck, late of Company E, Fifty-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1483

CHAP. 1274. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard M. Kellough . June 27, 1902.

[Private, No. 1095. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Kel-

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the loRuigchh.ard M.

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Richard M. Kellough, late of Company D, Sixty-

fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

CHAP. 1275. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Carrie M. Schofield.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Carrie M. Schofield , widow of Walter Schofield , late of Company I, Ninth Regiment lowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

[Private , No. 1096. ] Carrie M. Schofield. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1276. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Brown, late of Company E, Thirty- eighth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1097. ]
John M. Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1277. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jacob Smith.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 1098. ]

States

of America in

Congress assembled,

That the

Secretary

of

the

- Jacob Smith. Pension increased.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Jacob Smith , late of Company G, One hundred and seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

1484

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . I. CHS. 1278-1282 . 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1099. ]

CHAP. 1278. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Austin.

James Austin.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Austin, late of Company B, Fourth Regiment California Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1100.]
Julia B. Shurtleff. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1279. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia B. Shurtleff.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia B. Shurtleff, widow of Edward S. Shurtleff,

late acting master, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902. [Private , No. 1101.] APenntshioonnyiJn.crReaaisleedy..

CHAP. 1280. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anthony J. Railey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anthony J. Railey, late of Company K, Fifth Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1102.]
James B. Mahan. Pension.

CHAP. 1281. -An Act Granting a pension to James B. Mahan.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James B. Mahan, helpless and dependent son of Dempsey Mahan, late of Company B, Third Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP . 1282. -An Act Granting a pension to William F. Bowden.

[Private, No. 1103.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

WPielnlsiaonm. F. Bowden. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1282-1286 . 1902 .
laws , the name of William F. Bowden , late of Company K, Fourth Regiment Virginia Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1485

CHAP. 1283. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Bonham.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Bonham , late of Company K, First Regiment California Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

[ Private, No. 1104. ]
John S. Bonham. Pension increased.

CHAP . 1284. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin Beckwith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edwin Beckwith, late of Company K, Third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1105. ]
Edwin Beckwith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1285. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Wall.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1106. ]
Elizabeth Wall. Pension increased .

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Wall, widow of John T. Wall, late of

Company D, First Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27, 1902 .

CHAP. 1286. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew E. Hicks.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew E. Hicks , late of Company D, Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1107. ]
Andrew E. Hicks. Pension increased.

1486

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1287-1291 . 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1287. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edmund B. Appleton.

[Private, No. 1108.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United toEnd. mund B. Apple- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edmund B. Appleton , late of Company H, Fourteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1109.]
George W. White. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1288. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. White.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. White, late of Company D, Fourth Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1289. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ella B. S. Mannix.

[Private, No. 1110. ]
Ella B. S. Mannix. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ella B. S. Mannix , widow of Daniel Pratt Mannix ,

late captain, United States Marine Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902 .
[Private, No. 1111. ] James M. Conrad. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1290. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Conrad.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Conrad , late of Company G, One hundred and eighty-seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1112. ]
Stephen B. Todd . Pension increased.

CHAP . 1291. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen B. Todd .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1291-1295. 1902.
laws, the name of Stephen B. Todd, late captain Company D, Eighth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

1487

CHAP. 1292. --An Act Granting a pension to Fannie Reardon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie Reardon , widow of Patrick Reardon , alias Patrick Dunn, late of Company B, Second Regiment New York Provisional Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1113.]
Fannie Reardon. Pension.

CHAP. 1293. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Fusselman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Fusselman , late of Company E, One hundred and twenty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1114.]
George Fusselman. Pension increased.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 1294. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Miller.

June 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Miller, late of Company G, Fifty-fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[Private, No. 1115. ]
John Miller. Pension increased.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 1295. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary C. Bickerstaff.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary C. Bickerstaff, widow of William J. Bickerstaff, late of Company E, Twelfth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902. [Private, No. 1116. ] MPaenrsyioC.n.Bickerstaff

1488 FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS I. CHS. 1296-1298 , 1317 , 1318. 1902.

June 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 1117.]
Margaret S. Tod. Pension increased.

CHAP . 1296. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret S. Tod.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret S. Tod , widow of Samuel B. Tod , late ser-

geant, Company E, Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, June 27, 1902.

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1297. - An Act Granting a pension to Luther G. Edwards.

[Private, No. 1118. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

LPuetnhseironG.. Edwards. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Luther G. Edwards , late landsman, United States

ship Lancaster, United States Navy, war with Spain.

Approved, June 27 , 1902 .

June 27, 1902.

CHAP. 1298. -An Act Granting a pension to Samantha Towner.

[Private, No. 1119.] SPaenmsainotnh. a Towner.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samantha Towner, widow of Justin D. Towner, late

captain Company B, Twelfth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, June 27 , 1902.

June 28, 1902.

CHAP. 1317. -An Act To correct the record of John O'Brien.

[Private, No. 1120.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

John O'Brien.

Military record cor- States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be,

rected .

and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of deser-

tion now standing on the records against John O'Brien , late private, Company K, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and substitute therefor the words " remained absent from his company without proper

authority from March third, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, to July

fourteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty -three, when he voluntarily returned and was duly enlisted , mustered, and assigned to Company I,

Proviso. No pay, etc.

in said regiment, and served faithfully and was honorably discharged ": Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, June 28, 1902 .

June 28, 1902.

CHAP. 1318.-- An Act For the relief of S. J. Bayard Schindel.

[Private No. 1121.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United deSl.. J. Bayard Schin- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War
Credit in accounts. be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to cause to be credited

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1318-1320, 1340 , 1341. 1902. 1489
the accounts of Lieutenant S. J. Bayard Schindel, commissary Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, with the sum of seventy - seven dollars and thirteen cents, being for subsistence funds stolen from the commissary storehouse by unknown parties, and for which he was responsible.
Approved, June 28 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1319. -An Act To correct the military record of Reinhard Schneider.

June 28, 1902.

[Private, No. 1122. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War deRre. inhard Schnei-

is hereby authorized

and

directed

to

correct

the

military record

of Honorable charge.

dis-

Rhinehart Schneider , late a private in the Seventy-ninth Regiment of

New York Infantry Volunteers, and issue to him an honorable discharge from said regiment in the name of Reinhard Schneider as of

the date of September fifteenth , eighteen hundred and sixty-one : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or allowance shall become due or payable by reason of the passage of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, June 28, 1902.

CHAP. 1320.-An Act To correct the military record of James M. Olmstead.

June 28, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private , No. 1123.] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War James M. Olmstead.
Military record corbe, and he is hereby, authorized to amend the military record of James rected. M. Olmstead so as to fix September eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three , as the actual date of said Olmstead's discharge from the service as second lieutenant Company F, Eleventh Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, the same being the date to which he was paid and upon which his service terminated.
Approved, June 28 , 1902.

CHAP. 1340. -An Act Correcting the record of Levi Wells.

June 30, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private , No. 1124.]
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War LMielviitaWreyllrse.cord corbe, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of rected. desertion on the records of the War Department against Levi Wells ,

now of Spencerville, Allen County, Ohio, late a private of Company F, Twenty-fifth Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and a detail to the Twelfth Ohio Battery, and without leave from September eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three , until January sixteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, when he reenlisted under the name of John Dolve in the

United States Navy and served faithfully until December thirty- first, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, when he was honorably discharged : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1341. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clara W. McNair.

June 30, 1902 .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -17

Private, No. 1125. ] Clara W. McNair. Pension increased.

1490

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1341-1344. 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clara W. McNair, widow of Frederick V. McNair, late rear-admiral, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 30, 1902.

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1342. -An Act To authorize the Secretary of the Navy to appoint George

[Private, No. 1126.] H. Paul a warrant machinist in the Navy.

George H. Paul.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Appointment as States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

wNaarvryaanutthmoarcihziendi.st in Navy is hereby authorized to appoint George H. Paul to fill an original Vol. 30, p. 1007. vacancy in the one hundred warrant machinists in the Navy, author-

ized by section fourteen of the Act approved March third, eighteen

hundred and ninety -nine , entitled "An Act to reorganize and increase

the efficiency of the personnel of the Navy and Marine Corps of the

United States," notwithstanding he was about seven months beyond

the age limit at the time of examination , he having passed the exami-

nation, near the top of the list, under a misapprehension as to the age

limit, and having served twelve months at the Naval Academy and four

years at sea in the Government service as an engineer.

Approved, June 30, 1902.

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1343. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Adelaide G. Hatch.

[Private, No. 1127. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PAednesliaoindeinG.crHeaastecdh. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Adelaide G. Hatch, widow of John P. Hatch, late

colonel Second Regiment United States Cavalry and brigadier-general

United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty

dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, June 30, 1902.

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1344. -An Act For the promotion of First Lieutenant Joseph M. Simms,

[Private, No. 1128.] Revenue-Cutter Service.

Joseph M. Simms. StaBteesitoefnaAcmteerdibcyathienSCeonnagtreeasnsdaHsoseumsbeloedf,ReTphraetsetnhteatiPvreessiodfetnhte Uonfittehde

Promotion in Rev-

enue-Cutter authorized.

Service United States be, and he is hereby, authorized to advance Lieutenant

Joseph M. Simms , Revenue-Cutter Service, one grade, from first lieu-

tenant to that of captain, on the " Permanent waiting orders " list in

the Revenue- Cutter Service , for meritorious acts of public service and

wounds received in the United States service , as appears upon the pub-

lic records of the volunteer service of the Army and Navy and of the

Proviso. No increase of pay.

Revenue - Cutter Service :

Provided, That this Act shall not increase

the pay of said Simms above that provided for a first lieutenant on the

retired list, to wit, one thousand eight hundred and ninety dollars.

Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1345-1347. 1902 .

1491

CHAP. 1345. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clayton P. Van Houten. June 30, 1902.
[Private, No. 1129. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Clayton P. Van
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Houten. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clayton P. Van Houten , late captain Company D, First Regiment South Dakota Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving : Provided, That at the expiration of two years after the passage of this Act, if the said Clayton P. Van Houten, be then

Proviso. Rerating.

living, a medical examination shall be ordered and the rate of pension allowed by this Act shall be subject to change to accord with the degree of disability then existing .

Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1346. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth A. Turner. June 30, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Turner, widow of James A. Turner, late of Company B, Fourth Regiment United States Artillery , Seminole Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

[Private, No. 1130.] EPleinzsaiboentihnAc.reTausrende.r.

CHAP. 1347. --An Act For the relief of Daniel Cherry.

June 30, 1902.

[Private, No. 1131.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Solicitor of the

Daniel Cherry. Conveyance of cer-

Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to convey, in tain land in Dothan.

the name of the United States, to Daniel Cherry, of Henry County, Ala. , to.

Alabama, all right, title, and interest that the United States has in or

to the property formerly belonging to said Daniel Cherry, described as follows: One house and lot situated in the town of Dothan, Ala-

bama, and bounded on the north by Washington street, on the east by H. V. Lee's lot, on the south by lot owned by Dave Walden , and on the west by lot owned by B. M. Stripling, containing one and one-half

acres, more or less, being fractional part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section twenty-four, township three, and
range twenty-six, in the county of Henry , State of Alabama; the said
property being the same that was levied on, sold, and conveyed to the United States in satisfaction of a certain judgment recovered by the United States in the United States circuit court for the middle district

of Alabama in a suit on the forfeited bail bond of said Daniel Cherry,

the said Cherry having afterwards appeared and was tried and

acquitted on the charge made in the case in which said bail bond was

given: Provided, That before such deed is delivered by the Solicitor

Proviso. Cost of forfeiture

of the Treasury the sum of fifty dollars and thirty cents shall be paid proceedings.

over to the Secretary of the Treasury to cover the cost of such for-
feiture proceedings in the United States circuit court for the middle district of Alabama.

Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

1492

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1348-1350 . 1902.

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1348. - An Act For the relief of Joseph H. Penny, John W. Penny,

[Private, No. 1132. ] Thomas Penny, and Harvey Penny, surviving partners of Penny and Sons.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

JoJohsnephW.H. PPeennnnyy,, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Court of Claims is

Thomas Penny, and hereby given jurisdiction to rehear and reconsider and determine the

Harvey Penny. Relief of.

motion filed in said court by the claimants on the fifteenth day of April,

eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, for a rehearing and new trial of

the case of Penny and Sons versus the United States and Sioux Indians,

numbered in said court as Indian depredations numbered forty - six hundred and thirty-four; and to that end the bar of the statute of limi-

tations against said motion is hereby removed , and the said court is

given jurisdiction to rehear and redetermine said motion in the same

manner and with like effect as if said motion had been filed and pre

sented within the time authorized by law and the rules of said court;

and if said motion shall be sustained by said court, then, and in that

event, the court shall proceed to retry and readjudicate the matter

involved in said suit the same as if no former judgment had been entered therein .

Approved, June 30 , 1902 .

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1349. -An Act For the relief of John Hornick.

[Private, No. 1133.]

John Hornick.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Removal of disabil. States of America in Congress assembled, That John Hornick, having

iitvieesnactauursaeldizbaytidoenfe. ct- served in the infantry service of the United States for nearly three years during the war of the rebellion , and having been honorably discharged from such service, be, and he is hereby, relieved from any disability now or heretofore existing , since the date of his said discharge, by reason of any defective naturalization, or by reason of not having been duly naturalized under the laws of the United States ; and he is hereby authorized to prosecute, in the Court of Claims of the United States, Indian depredation claim numbered in said court ten thousand three hundred and eighty-nine and entitled " John Hornick, Fred T. Evans, and Richard Dunn versus The United States and the Sioux Indians," in which cause judgment was rendered by said court on the fourteenth day of January, anno Domini nineteen hundred and one; and the said court is hereby authorized and directed to reinstate the said cause, so far as the same pertains to the claim of the said John Hornick, and upon the facts, as found and returned by said court, is authorized to enter judgment in said cause in favor of the said John Hornick for such sum as he would have been entitled to

recover in said action , with such costs as he may be entitled to recover under existing law and the rules of said court, the same as if he had beer, a citizen of the United States at the time said depredation was committed.

Approved, June 30, 1902.

June 30, 1902.

CHAP. 1350. - An Act To pay the claim of Stephen B. Halsey.

[Private, No. 1134. ] PStaeypmheenntBt.o.Halsey .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That there be, and is hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of fifty dollars, to be paid to Stephen B. Halsey, for the damage done to his dock at Astoria, Long Island, by the United States steamship Canby on August twenty -first, eighteen hundred and

ninety - nine .

Approved, June 30, 1902.

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1387-1390 . 1902 .

1493

CHAP. 1387. - An Act For the relief of Angus A. McPhee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Treasurer of the United States pay to Angus A. McPhee the sum of six hundred and seventy-six dollars and eighty-five cents, the same being the amount

July 1 , 1902 .
[Private, No. 1135. ]
Angus A. McPhee. Payment to.

of a certain judgment recovered by the United States against said

McPhee on the thirtieth day of April, eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, in the circuit court of the western district of Wisconsin, for six hundred and sixteen dollars and eighty-five cents , and sixty dollars

expended for costs by said McPhee in defending the action , and which

judgment was paid in full by said McPhee, it being for the value of timber cut from certain lands in sections one, thirteen, eleven, and twenty-

three, township forty-five north, of range four, Ashland County, Wisconsin, by said McPhee , and claimed by the United States, and which

lands were subsequently determined by the Supreme Court, in the case of Wisconsin Central Railroad Company against Forsythe, to be owned by the said railroad company under the grant of May fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-four.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1388. --An Act Granting a pension to William G. Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Miller, late of Captain Harris' company, Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1136. ]
William G. Miller. Pension.

CHAP. 1389. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William S. Hosack.

July 1, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private , No. 1187. ] William S. Hosack.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William S. Hosack, late of Company G, Seventyeighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1390. -An Act For the relief of Albion M. Christie.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to pay to Albion M. Christie, assignee of Luke Christie , deceased , local inspector, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , the sum of two hundred and sixty-eight dollars and eighty cents, said sum being the proceeds of Treasury warrant numbered two thousand and forty-nine, dated February first , eighteen hundred and sixty - one, and

July 1 , 1902. [Private, No. 1138.]
Albion M. Christie. Payment to .

1494

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS . 1390-1394. 1902 .
drawn in favor of Luke Christie, local inspector, for said amount, in payment for work and labor performed by him as inspector of hulls at Savannah, Georgia, the payment of which said Treasury warrant has been withheld under and by virtue of the provisions of section thirty-four hundred and eighty of the Revised Statutes of the United States, upon the presentation and surrender of said Treasury warrant to the Treasury Department.
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1391.--An Act Granting a pension to Daniel L. Mallicoat.

[Private, No, 1139. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
DPaenniseilonL.. Mallicoat. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Daniel L. Mallicoat , late captain Company N, Greene

County, Missouri , Home Guards, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1140. ]
Kate O. Phillips . Pension increased.

CHAP. 1392.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Kate O. Phillips.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Kate O. Phillips, widow of Joseph A. Phillips , late surgeon, Ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1393. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Marble.

[Private, No. 1141.]
John Marble. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Marble, late of the United States steamships

Ohio, Cohassett, and Ceres, United States Navy, and pay him a pension

at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1394. -An Act For the relief of Jacob L. Hanger.

[Private, No. 1142. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Jacob L. Hanger. Military record cor-

States of America in Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary of War

rected.

is hereby authorized and directed to remove the charge of desertion

standing against Jacob L. Hanger, alias William T. Graham , late of

Company C, Thirtieth Ohio Infantry, and Company F, Second Ohio

Heavy Artillery Volunteers, who absented himself without proper authority and remained so absent to July fifteenth , eighteen hundred

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1394-1398 . 1902.

1495

and sixty-three, when , under the name of William T. Graham, he enlisted in Company F, Second Ohio Heavy Artillery Volunteers, served faithfully, and was honorably discharged with his command August twenty -third, eighteen hundred and sixty- five: Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

Proviso. No pay, etc.

CHAP. 1395.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry P. Macloon.

July 1, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry P. Macloon, late second lieutenant Company K, Twenty-fifth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved July 1 , 1902.

[Private, No. 1143. ] HPeennsriyonP.inMcarcelaosoend ..

CHAP. 1396. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orrin J. Wells .

July 1, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Orrin J. Wells , late of Company 1 , Fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

[ Private, No. 1144.]
Orrin J. Wells. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1397. -An Act Granting a pension to James A. Chalfant.

July 1, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 1145. ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

James A. Chalfant. Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Chalfant, late of Company F, Eighteenth Regiment United States Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1398. -An Act Granting a pension to Absolum Maynard.

July 1 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Absolum Maynard , late of Captain Thomas Damaron's independent company Virginia Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

[Private , No. 1146. ]
Absolum Maynard. Pension.

1496

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. I. CHS. 1399-1403 . 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1399. -- An Act Authorizing the payment of part of the pension of Ira

[Private, No. 1147.] Steward to Adell Augusta Steward.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

arAdd.ell Augusta Stew States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Payment of part of Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to cause to be

husband's pension to. paid to Adell Augusta Steward, the former wife of Ira Steward , late

of Company D, Thirteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy

Artillery, upon her properly executed voucher and out of the pension

due or to become due from and after the passage of this Act to said

Ira Steward, the sum of twelve dollars per month during the period of

Proviso. Pension to cease on said Steward's imprisonment: Provided, That said Adell Augusta Stew-

remarriage.

ard shall not remarry during the imprisonment of said Ira Steward.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1148. ] PHeanrsmioanniSnccrraemalsiend..

CHAP. 1400. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harman Scramlin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harman Scramlin , late of Company D, Forty- second

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1149.] JPaesnosinoEn.iFnrcereeamsaend.

CHAP. 1401. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jason E. Freeman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jason E. Freeman, late of Company C, Sixth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1402. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Silas Stotts.

[Private, No. 1150. ]
Silas Stotts. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the penson laws, the name of Silas Stotts , late of Company H, Sixty-second Regi-

ment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, such pen-

sion to be paid to his duly constituted guardian .

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1 , 1902.
[Private, No. 1151. ]
John W. Thomas. Pension.

CHAP. 1403. - An Act Granting a pension to John W. Thomas.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1403-1407.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Thomas, late of Company D, Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

1497.

CHAP. 1404. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Lauchly.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Lauchly, late second lieutenant, Company H, One hundred and tenth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1152.]
John H. Lauchly. Pension increased.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1405. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caroline A. Hammond.

July 1, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [ Private, No. 1153. ]
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the moCanrdo.line A. Ham Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline A. Hammond, widow of William P.

Hammond, late of Captain Goodwyn's company of Alabama Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, the same to be paid to her under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment, without any deduction or rebate on account of any former erroneous payments of pension.

No deductions.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1406. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edwin P. Johnson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edwin P. Johnson, late of Company E, Thirteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1154.]
Edwin P. Johnson. Pension increased.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1407. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Thomas.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Thomas, late seaman, United States steamships North Carolina , Potomac , and Sabine, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1155.]
Daniel Thomas. Pension increased.

1498

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1408-1412.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1156.]
Susan A. Phelps. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1408. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan A. Phelps.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan A. Phelps, widow of Ithamar D. Phelps, late captain Company K, Seventy-third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1157.]
George E. Bump. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1409. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George E. Bump.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George E. Bump, late of Company A, First Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1410. -An Act Granting a pension to Jacob Findley.

[Private, No. 1158.]
Jacob Findley. Pension .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jacob Findley, late of Company F, One hundred and thirty-fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1411. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis M. Beebe.

[Private, No. 1159.]
Francis M. Beebe. Pension increased .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis M. Beebe , late of Company G, One hundred and fourteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him
a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1412. -An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth A. Nalley.

[Private, No. 1160.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
PEleinzsaiboent.h A.Nalley. States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1412-1416. 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Nalley , helpless and dependent daughter of William H. Nalley, late captain Company A, Fifth Battalion District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

1499

CHAP. 1413. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Baley W. Small.

July 1 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Baley W. Smail , late first lieutenant Company K, Seventy-seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

[ Private, No. 1161.]
Baley W. Small . Pension increased.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1414 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Warren C. Plummer.

July 1 , 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 1162. ] Warren C. Plum-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the mer. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Warren C. Plummer, late first lieutenant Company
C, Fifteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1415. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Shaw.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Shaw, late of Company C, Eleventh Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1 , 1902. [Private, No. 1163.] GPeeonrsgioenW.inScrheaawse. d.

CHAP. 1416. -An Act Granting a pension to William C. Roberts.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William C. Roberts, late of Company H, Fiftieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1164.]
William C. Roberts. Pension.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

1500

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1417-1421 . 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1417. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ebenezer W. Oakley.

[Private, No. 1165.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United leEyb. enezer W. Oak- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Ebenezer W. Oakley, late of Company H, Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved , July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1166. ]
Ransom Simmons. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1418. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ransom Simmons.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ransom Simmons, late of Company K, First Regi-

ment Michigan Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1419. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Horatio N. Whitbeck

[Private, No. 1167.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited

beHcokr.atio N. Whit- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Horatio N. Whitbeck, late lieutenant -colonel Sixty-

fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1168. ]
WPielnlsioanm iLn.cCrehausrecdh. .

CHAP. 1420. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William L. Church.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William L. Church, late of Company B, Fortyseventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1421. --An Act Granting a pension to John J. Southerland.

[Private, No. 1169.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

laJnodh. n J. Souther States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John J. Southerland , late of Captain Michael M.

Gilbreath's company, Alabama scouts and guides, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS. 1422-1426 . 1902 .

1501

CHAP. 1422. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anne M. Luman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anne M. Luman, widow of Theodore Luman , late first lieutenant and adjutant, Second Regiment Potomac Home Brigade Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1170.]
Anne M. Luman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1423. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Moore.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Moore, widow of James E. Moore, late of Troop B, Seventh Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1171. ]
Mary J. Moore. Pension.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

CHAP. 1424. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Edgington.

July 1, 1902.

[Private, No. 1172.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ttoGne. orge W. EdgingPension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Edgington, late of Company H, Eighth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1425 .--An Act Granting a pension to Lizzie Dunlap.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lizzie Dunlap, helpless and dependent daughter of James W. Dunlap, late of Company B, Two hundred and fourteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1173.]
Lizzie Dunlap. Pension.

CHAP. 1426. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan B. Lynch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1174. ]
Susan B. Lynch. Pension increased.

1502

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. I. CHS . 1426-1430 . 1902.
laws, the name of Susan B. Lynch, widow of George Lynch, late of Captain Irby's company, First Battalion Alabama Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1427. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander Murdock.

[Private, No. 1175. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PAelnesxiaonndeinrcMruerasdeodc.k. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alexander Murdock, late of Company B, First Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1428.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nancy J. McArthur.

[Private, No. 1176.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

NPeannsciyonJ.iMncrAeratsheud.r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy J. McArthur, widow of James R. McArthur,

late captain of Company G, Seventy-first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1177.]
John Williamson. Pension .

CHAP. 1429. - An Act Granting a pension to John Williamson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John Williamson , late of Company G, Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1, 1902.
[Private, No. 1178.]
Charles A. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1430. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles A. Scott.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles A. Scott, late of Companies M and F, Eighteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1431-1434. 1902.

1503

CHAP. 1431. -An Act For the relief of Anna Eliza Isabella Von Hemert.

July 1, 1902.

[Private, No. 1179.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Anna Eliza Isabella

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Commissioners of Von Hemert.

the District of Columbia be, and

they are

hereby ,

authorized

and Refund of erroneous special assessment,

directed to pay to Anna Eliza Isabella Von Hemert the sum of five District of Columbia.

thousand one hundred and sixty-seven dollars and five cents , in refund-

ment of the money inadvertently paid by her for the discharge of the special assessment against the Walton W. Evans tract of land, repre-

sented by lien certificates numbered eight and thirty-eight of the series issued for the cost of improvements upon the street connecting

Columbia road with Connecticut avenue extended and thence along said avenue to the District line, which certificates have been declared

by the supreme court of the District of Columbia to have been illegally

issued; and for that purpose there is hereby appropriated the afore- Half from District said sum of money, one-half of which to be paid from the revenues of revenues. the District of Columbia and one-half from any money in the Treasury

not otherwise appropriated .

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1432. -An Act For the relief of I. I. Barber.

July 1 , 1902.

[Private, No. 1180. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
I. I. Barber. States of America in Congress assembled, That I. I. Barber, who is Selection of lands the owner of military bounty land warrant forty-five thousand four iiznedMi. ssissippi authorhundred and sixty -seven, issued the twentieth day of March, eighteen
hundred and fifty-two, for forty acres of land, and military bounty land warrant sixty-two thousand one hundred and four, issued the
thirteenth day of April, eighteen hundred and fifty-seven, for one hundred and sixty acres of land, is authorized to select two hundred
acres of unreserved public lands of the United States in the State of Mississippi, in one body, or in subdivisions of not less than forty acres each, and upon such selection and the delivery of said land war-
rants to the Secretary of the Interior, duly certified and assigned to the bearer, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to issue patent, or patents, as the case may be, to said I. I. Barber for such land or lands .

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

CHAP. 1433. --An Act For the relief of Sol Bear and Company.

July 1, 1902.

[Private, No. 1181. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the paSnoyl. Bear and ComTreasury of the United States be, and he is hereby, empowered and Refund of revenue
stamps. directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, the sum of one hundred and fifty-six dollars and sixty-

four cents to said Sol Bear and Company, of Wilmington , North

Carolina, upon said Sol Bear and Company first surrendering to the

Commissioner of Internal Revenue the original stamps issued for said sum of money .

Approved , July 1, 1902.

CHAP. 1434. -An Act For the relief of P. A. McClain.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby is , authorized and directed to pay to

July 1, 1902 . [Private, No. 1182. ]
P. A. McClain . Payment to.

1504

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . I. CHS. 1434-1436. 1902 .
P. A. McClain, collector of internal revenue at Philadelphia , Pennsyl vania, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of three hundred and sixty -six dollars, the amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States by said P. A. McClain in payment for adhesive revenue stamps issued to him in the months of June and July, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight , by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and not received , sold, or accounted for by him.
Approved, July 1 , 1902.

July 1 , 1902. [Private, No. 1183. ]
Charles E. Sapp. Payment to.

CHAP. 1435. -An Act For the relief of Charles E. Sapp.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay Charles E. Sapp, late collector of internal revenue for the fifth district of Ken-

tucky, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of two hundred dollars, to reimburse him for special- tax

stamps for " worms manufactured, " charged to him, which were never received by him .

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

July 1, 1902. [Private, No. 1184.]

CHAP. 1436. -An Act To pay F. Y. Ramsay, heir at law and distributee of the late Joseph Ramsay, four hundred and thirty dollars and forty-two cents, for balance due the said Joseph Ramsay as collector of customs and superintendent of lights in the district of Plymouth, North Carolina.

Joseph Ramsay.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Payment to heir at States of America in Congress assembled, That the Treasurer of the

law.

United States is hereby authorized and directed to pay, out of any

funds in the United States Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the

sum of four hundred and thirty dollars and forty-two cents to F. Y.

Ramsay, heir at law and distributee of the late Joseph Ramsay, being balance due the said Joseph Ramsay, deceased , as collector of customs

and superintendent of lights in the district of Plymouth, North Caro-

lina, from March first, eighteen hundred and fifty-nine, to April thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

RESOLUTION .

July 1 , 1902.

[No. 48. ] Joint Resolution For the relief of Naval Cadet William Victor Tomb,

United States Navy. [Priv. Res. , No. 1.]

Preamble.

Whereas William Victor Tomb, naval cadet , United States Navy,

has been found upon examination to be physically disqualified for

promotion to the grade of ensign in the Navy on account of disability incurred in the line of duty: Therefore,

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
ToWmibl.liam Victor States of America in Congress assembled, That the President be, and
May be promoted he is hereby, authorized to promote the said Tomb to the grade of ensign, Navy.
ensign in the Navy.

Approved, July 1 , 1902 .

PRIVATE ACTS OF THE FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES , Passed at the second session, which was begun and held at the city of Washington, in
the District of Columbia, on Monday, the first day of December, 1902, and was adjourned without day on Tuesday, the third day ofMarch, 1903.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President; WILLIAM P. FRYE , President of the Senate pro tempore; DAVID B. HENDERSON, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

CHAP. 6. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia L. Gordon .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia L. Gordon, widow of Jonathan W. Gordon, late major, Eleventh Regiment United States Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, December 18, 1902 .

December 18, 1902.
[Private, No. 1.]
Julia L. Gordon . Pension increased.

CHAP. 8. -- An Act To grant an honorable discharge from the military service December 19, 1902.

to Charles H. Hawley.

[Private, No. 2.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

States ofAmerica in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be,

Charles H. Hawley. Granted honorable

and he is hereby, authorized to review and to revoke the order dismiss- discharge.

ing Charles H. Hawley from the service as a second lieutenant of the

Sixteenth Regiment of Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and to issue

a certificate of honorable discharge for him, to date from the twenty-

fifth day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and that said

Hawley shall thereafter be held and considered to have been honorably

discharged from the military service of the United States on said date : Provided, That no pay, bounty , or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved , December 19 , 1902 .

CHAP. 14. -An Act For the relief of James M. Chisham.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to reimburse,

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -18

1505

December 24, 1902.
[Private, No. 3. ]
James M. Chisham. Reimbursement of.

1506

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 14-18.
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of seven hundred and eight dollars and ninety-nine cents to James M. Chisham, for loss sustained by him as postmaster at Atchison , Kansas , on account of the failure of the Atchison National Bank, of Atchison, Kansas, where he had the funds of the Government on deposit as postmaster.
Approved, December 24 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 4. ]
William Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 15- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Clark.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Clark, late captain Company C, Forty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at
the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 5.]
Huldah A. Clark. Pension.

CHAP. 16. -An Act Granting a pension to Huldah A. Clark.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Huldah A. Clark, widow of William L. Clark, late of Company B, First Regiment Indiana Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 6.]
James E. Bates. Pension.

CHAP. 17.-- An Act Granting a pension to James E. Bates.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. Bates, late of Company C, Thirty-eighth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 7.]
Susan J. Taylor. Pension.

CHAP. 18. --An Act Granting a pension to Susan J. Taylor.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan J. Taylor, widow of Charles E. Taylor, late captain Company I, Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 19-23. 1902.

1507

CHAP. 19. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marvin Chandler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marvin Chandler, late of Company G, One hundred and forty-third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 8.]
Marvin Chandler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 20. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Ludwig.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Ludwig, late of Company A, Ninth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, December 27 , 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 9.]
John Ludwig. Pension increased.

CHAP. 21. --An Act Granting a pension to James A. Clifton.

December 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Clifton, late of Company F, Forty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

[Private , No. 10. ]
James A. Clifton. Pension.

CHAP. 22. -An Act To reimburse the Mellert Foundry and Machine Company
for money retained by the United States for failure to complete a contract within a specified time.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 11.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Mellert Foundry States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of two thousand and Machine Comfour hundred and twenty- seven dollars and eighty - four cents be, and paRneyimbursement of. is hereby, appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the purpose of reimbursing the Mellert Foundry and Machine Company, Limited , of Reading, Pennsylvania, for money retained as a penalty by the United States by reason of a failure to complete a contract within a specified time.
Approved, December 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 23. -An Act Granting a pension to Michael Mullin.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 12.]
Michael Mullin. Pension.

1508

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 23-27. 1902 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Mullin , late of Company C, United States Mounted Rifles, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 13. ]
APerntshiuornPi.nLcorveaesjeody..

CHAP. 24. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Arthur P. Lovejoy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Arthur P. Lovejoy, late of Company C, First Regiment Vermont Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, December 27 , 1902.

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 25. --An Act Granting a pension to Calvin Duckworth.

[Private, No. 14.] CPaelnvsiinonD.uckworth.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Calvin Duckworth , late of Company H, Sixty -third

Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry (Enrolled Militia), and pay him

a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 26. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen Harris.

[Private, No. 15.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Stephen Harris. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stephen Harris , late of Company I, Ninety-first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, Seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of fourteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 27. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Poor.

[Private, No. 16. ] James W. Poor. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James W. Poor, late of Company B, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 28-32 . 1902 .

1509

CHAP . 28. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sanders R. Seamonds.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 17. ]

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Sanders R. Sea-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the monds. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sanders R. Seamonds , late of Company M, Second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, December 27 , 1902.

CHAP. 29. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Wilkinson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Wilkinson , late of Company G, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 18. ]
Thomas Wilkinson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 30. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles F. Coles.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Coles, late of Company H, Tenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 19.] CPheanrslieosn Fi.ncCroelaesse. d.

CHAP. 31. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary Stone.

December 27, 1902.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Stone, widow of George A. Stone, late colonel Twenty- fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, December 27 , 1902.

[Private, No. 20. ]
Mary Stone. Pension.

CHAP. 32. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David E. Hall.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David E. Hall, late of Company E, First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 21. ]
David E. Hall, Pension increased.

1510

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 33-37. 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 22. ]
Millen McMillen. Pension increased .

CHAP. 33. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Millen McMillen.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Millen McMillen , late of Company E, One hundred and twenty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 23. ]
Allen W. Merrill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 34. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Allen W. Merrill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Allen W. Merrill , late of Company C, Sixty-fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 24. ]
Cappa King. Pension.

CHAP. 35. -An Act Granting a pension to Cappa King.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cappa King, helpless and dependent daughter of John W. King, late of Company D, Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 25. ]
BPeennsjiaomnininGcrrienanseeldl. .

CHAP. 36. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Grinnell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Grinnell, late of Company H, Thirty-first

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 37.---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas J. Pleasant.
[Private, No. 26. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PTehnosmiaosn iJ.ncPrleeaasseadn.t. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 37-41 . 1902.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of Thomas J. Pleasant, late of Company G, Ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

1511

CHAP. 38.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to James S. Young.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James S. Young, late of Company I , Eighty-fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 27.]
James S. Young. Pension increased.

CHAP. 39.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leon King.
Beit enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leon King, late of Company G, Twenty- eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 28.]
Leon King. Pension increased.

CHAP. 40. -An Act Granting a pension to Jennie M. Sawyer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie M. Sawyer, former widow of John E. Sawyer, late of Company H, Second Regiment Colorado Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 29. ]
Jennie M. Sawyer. Pension.

CHAP. 41. -- An Act Granting a pension to William H. Ruggles.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Ruggles, late of Company H, First Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and Battery G, Second Regiment United States Artillery, war with Spain.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 30.]
William H. Ruggles, Pension.

1512

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 42-46. 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 31. ]
Anne Bronson. Pension.

CHAP. 42. --An Act Granting a pension to Anne Bronson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Anne Bronson , dependent mother of Theodore Bronson, late of Company A, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, December 27 , 1902.

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 32. ]
Joseph Mote. Pension increased.

CHAP. 43. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Mote.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Mote, late of Company G, One hundred and twenty- fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 33. ]
Abbie Bourke. Pension .

CHAP. 44. -An Act Granting a pension to Abbie Bourke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Abbie Bourke , widow of David Bourke, late master at arms, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said David Bourke until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, December 27 , 1902.

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 45. --An Act Granting a pension to Catharine Freeman.

[Private, No. 31.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

PCeatnhsairoinn. e Freeman. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Catharine Freeman , dependent mother of Daniel W. Freeman, late of Company E, Third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars

per month.

Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 35.]
Samuel Hyman. Pension increased,

CHAP. 46. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Hyman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 46-50 . 1902.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Hyman, late of the Baltimore Battery Maryland Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

1513

CHAP. 47. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cornelia A. Dennis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cornelia A. Dennis, widow of Green K. Dennis , late of Company F, First Regiment Texas Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 36. ]
Cornelia A. Dennis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 48. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William W. Anderson. December 27, 1902 .
[Private, No. 37.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
William W. Ander States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of William W. Anderson, late of Company F, Eight-
eenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension
at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, December 27 , 1902 .

CHAP. 49.--An Act Granting a pension to Nancy M. Gunsally.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy M. Gunsally, former widow of Lyman M. Richmond, late of Company G, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 38.] NPaennsciyonM.. Gunsally

CHAP. 50. -- An Act Granting a pension to John A. Kirkham.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Kirkham, late of Captain Young's company, Fourth Regiment Indiana Legion, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 39. ]
John A. Kirkham . Pension.

1514

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 51-55 . 1902 .

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 51. --An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth D. Harding.

[Private, No. 40. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

inEgl. izabeth D. Hard- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth D. Harding, widow of Isaac N. Harding,

late of Company H, Fortieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, December 27, 1902.

December27 , 1902. [Private, No. 41.]

CHAP. 52. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Snyder.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United WPienlslioanmiHn.crSenaysdeedr. . States of America in Congress assembled, That theSecretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William H. Snyder, late of Company E, One hundred and twenty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay

him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, December 27 , 1902.

December 27, 1902. [Private, No. 42.] JPoensaitohnainnWcarelabseerdt..

CHAP. 53. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jonathan Walbert.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jonathan Walbert, late of Company F, Seventysecond Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 43. ]
Mary A. E. Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 54. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. E. Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. E. Scott, widow of James H. Scott, late of Captain Sledge's company, Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902. CHAP. 55. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George R. Baldwin.

[Private, No. 44.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

GPenosrigoenRi.ncBraeladswedi.n. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 55-57, 60, 64. 1902-1903. 1515
laws, the name of George R. Baldwin , late of Company C, Eighth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, December 27, 1902.

CHAP. 56. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Peters.

December 27, 1902.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Peters, widow of Augustus C. Peters , late second lieutenant Company K, Sixteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.
Approved, December 27 , 1902.

[Private , No. 45. ]
Mary A. Peters. Pension.

CHAP. 57. -- An Act Granting a pension to John C. Clarke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Clarke , late of Company K, Sixty- ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, December 27, 1902 .

December 27, 1902.
[Private, No. 46. ]
John C. Clarke. Pension.

CHAP. 60. --An Act To remove the charge of desertion against Thomas Cordingly. January 8, 1903. [Private, No. 47.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the TGhraonmtaesd Cohrodnionrgalbyl.e Navy be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the discharge. charge of desertion now standing against the name of Thomas Cordingly, a seaman, charged with desertion from the United States steam-
ship Flag and Vermont April twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-five: And the Secretary of the Navy is authorized to issue to him a certificate of honorable discharge from the Navy.
Approved, January 8, 1903.

CHAP. 64. --An Act Removing the charge of desertion from the name of Jacob January 9, 1903.

Bowman.

[Private, No. 48. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War JCahcaorbgeBoofwdmeasenr.tion be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of removed. desertion now borne on the records of the War Department against

Jacob Bowman, of Company K, Sixty-third Regiment Indiana Infantry Volunteers , and substitute therefor the words " Discharged December second, eighteen hundred and sixty-two : " Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall accrue by virtue of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, Jannary 9, 1903 .

1516

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 65-69. 1903.

January 9, 1903. [Private, No. 49. ]
WPielnslioanm iHn.crGeraeseend..

CHAP. 65. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Green.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Green, late captain Company E, Second Regiment Colorado Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 50. ]
Jane M. Meyer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 66. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane M. Meyer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane M. Meyer, widow of Herman A. Meyer, junior,

late captain Company H, Twenty - eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volun-

teer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 67. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rufus V. Lee.

[Private, No. 51. ]
Rufus V. Lee. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name Rufus V. Lee, late of Company B, Tenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 9 , 1903.

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 68. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cornelia F. Whitney.

[Private, No. 52. ]

Cornelia F. Whit- Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

ney .

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cornelia F. Whitney, widow of Edmund C. Whitney,

late of Company I, Fifty-third Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 69. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James K. Van Matre.

[Private, No. 53. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
JPaemnseisoKn.iVnacnreMaasterde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 69-73. 1903.
laws, the name of James K. Van Matre, late of Fifth Independent Battery Wisconsin Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9, 1903.

1517

CHAP. 70. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann E. Tillson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann E. Tillson, widow of John Tillson , late colonel Tenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and brevet brigadiergeneral United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, January 9 , 1903 .

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 54.]
Ann E. Tillson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 71.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to David J. Newman.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David J. Newman , late of Company G, Twentyfourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903.

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 55. ] David J. Newman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 72. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles C. Davis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles C. Davis, late of Company A, Thirty-sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 9 , 1903.

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 56. ]
Charles C. Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 73.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Angevine.

January 9, 1903.

[Private, No. 57.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United William F. Ange States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the vine. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William F. Angevine, late captain Company K,

Ninety-eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

1518

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. Cs. 74-78. 1903.

January 9, 1903. [Private, No. 58. ]
PWeinlslioanm iHn.crLeeassseidg..

CHAP. 74. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Lessig.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of William H. Lessig, late_lieutenant-colonel Ninetysixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 9, 1903 .

January 9, 1903. [Private, No. 59.]
John A. Rotan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 75. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Rotan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Rotan , late of Company H, Forty-fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 76. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David O. Carpenter.

[Private, No. 60. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
DPeanvsiidoOn.iCnacrepaesnetde.r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of David O. Carpenter , late of Company K, Sixth Regi-

ment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 77. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Bradshaw.

[Private, No. 61. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
shGaewo.rge W. Brad States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Bradshaw, late of Company K, First Regiment Kentucky Volunteers, war with Mexico, and Company F, One hundred and forty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry,

and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903 .

January 9, 1903.

CHAP. 78. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert H. Busteed.

[Private, No. 62. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PReonbseirotnHi.ncBruesatseedd. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 78-82 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert H. Busteed , late of Company C, Eighth Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9, 1903.

1519

CHAP. 79.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maria V. Stadtmueller.

January 9, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 63. ] Maria V. Stadtmuel-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ler. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria V. Stadtmueller, widow of Charles Stadt-
mueller, late of Companies A and H, Fifth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903.

CHAP. 80. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles W. Rose.

January 9, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles W. Rose , late lieutenant-colonel Fourteenth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903.

[Private, No. 64. ] CPheanrslieosnWi.ncRroesasee. d.

CHAP. 81.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Matthew B. Noel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matthew B. Noel, late of Company C , Thirty-ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903.

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 65.]
Matthew B. Noel. Pension increased.

CHAP. 82.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Merzellah Merrill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Merzellah Merrill, late of Company C, Tenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903 .

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 66. ]
Merzellah Merrill. Pension increased.

1520

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 83-86 , 93. 1903 .

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 67. ]
Willie Thomas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 83. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Willie Thomas.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Willie Thomas, late of Company A, Twenty-sixth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9 , 1903 .

January 9, 1903. [Private, No. 68. ]
David Vickers. Pension increased.

CHAP. 84. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Vickers.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Vickers , late major, Fourth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and major and inspector-general, United States Volunteers, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 69.]
Charles Sprague. Pension increased.

CHAP. 85. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Sprague.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Sprague, late of Company D, Eighty- sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 9, 1903.

January 9, 1903. [Private, No. 70. ]
Charles A. Cooke. Pension increased.

CHAP. 86. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles A. Cooke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles A. Cooke, late of Company D, Thirtieth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 9, 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 71.]
Emma L. Ferrier. Pension.

CHAP. 93. -An Act Granting a pension to Emma L. Ferrier.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma L. Ferrier, widow of William A. Ferrier,

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. Cs. 93-97. 1903.
late gunner, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

1521

CHAP. 94. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stanley M. Caspar.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stanley M. Caspar, late of Company D, First Battalion , and Company H, Second Battalion , Eighteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 12, 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 72.]
Stanley M. Caspar. Pension increased.

CHAP. 95. --An Act Granting a pension to Hulda Milligan.

January 12, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hulda Milligan, widow of William Milligan , late of Company L, First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month , and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said
William Milligan until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

[ Private , No. 73. ]
Hulda Milligan. Pension.

CHAP. 96. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Weaver.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Weaver, late of Company F, Fifty- seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 74.]
Henry Weaver. Pension increased.

CHAP. 97. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George A. Mercer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of George A. Mercer, late of Company E, First Regiment Pennsylvania Reserves Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 . VOL XXXII , PT 2- -19

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 75. ]
George A. Mercer. Pension increased.

1522

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 98-102. 1903.

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 98. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William A. P. Fellows.

[Private, No. 76.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United loWwisl. liam A. P. Fel- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. P. Fellows, late of Company D, Second

Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 77. ]
Henry Jennings. Pension increased.

CHAP. 99. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Jennings.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Henry Jennings , late of Company D, Twentieth

Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 100. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Cook.

[Private, No. 78. ]
John Cook . Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Cook, late brigadier-general, United States

Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 79. ]
Asa Worden, Pension increased.

CHAP. 101. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Asa Worden.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Asa Worden , late major Fourteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 102. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Thompson.

[Private, No. 80. ]
James Thompson. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James Thompson , late of Company K, Fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 103-107 . 1903 .

1523

CHAP. 103. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William M. Hodge.

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 81. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United William M. Hodge. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William M. Hodge , late of Company E, One hundred and forty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him . a pension at the rate of thirty- six dollars per month in lieu of that he
is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

CHAP. 104. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar Van Tassell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oscar Van Tassell, late captain Company F, and lieutenant-colonel Thirty-fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12, 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 82. ]
Oscar Van Tassell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 105. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis F. Ross.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis F. Ross, late first lieutenant Company A, Forty- sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 83.]
Lewis F. Ross. Pension increased.

CHAP. 106. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac Rhodes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac Rhodes, late of Company B, First Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12, 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 84. ]
Isaac Rhodes. Pension increased .

CHAP. 107. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stiles L. Acee.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 85. ] SPteinlsesioLn. iAnccereea. sed .

1524

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. Cs. 107-111 . 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stiles L. Acee, late of Loyall's Independent Company, Georgia Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of -twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 86. ]
John Fler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 108. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Fler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Fler, late musician, Twenty -seventh Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 87.]
Mary A. Moore. Pension increased.

CHAP. 109. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Moore.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Moore, widow of David Moore, late colonel Twenty-first and Fifty- first regiments Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 88.]
Gilbert Barkalow. Pension increased.

CHAP. 110. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gilbert Barkalow .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gilbert Barkalow, late of Eighth Independent Battery Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 111. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Katharine W. Clarke.

[Private, No. 89.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
. KPaetnhsairoinnienWcr.eCalsaerdk. e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Katharine W. Clarke, widow of Henry K. Clarke,

late surgeon Tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay

her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of

that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 112-115. 1903.

1525

CHAP. 112. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel S. Walck.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Samuel S. Walck, late of Company G, Seventeenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 90.]
Samuel S. Walck. Pension increased.

CHAP. 113. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Augusta Neville Leary. January 12, 1903.

[Private, No. 91.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary of the Augusta Leary.

Neville

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Augusta Neville Leary, widow of Richard P. Leary,

late rear-admiral , United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the

rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and

two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Richard P. Leary until he reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, January 12 , 1903.

CHAP. 114.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph A. Kerbey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph A. Kerbey, late second lieutenant , Signal Corps, United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12, 1903 .

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 92.]
Joseph A. Kerbey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 115.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martha A. Johnston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 93.]
Martha A. Johnston. Pension increa. ed.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha A. Johnston, widow of Valancourt C. John-

ston, alias William Walker, late of Company K, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and Company G, Fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of
twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Valancourt C. Johnston , alias William Walker, until he reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, January 12, 1903 .

1526

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 116-120.

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 116. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John R. Sandsbury.

[Private, No. 94.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
JPeonhsnioRn. iSnacnrdesabseudr.y. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John R. Sandsbury , late of United States steamers

Ohio and Montgomery, United States Navy , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 95.]
Angus Cameron . Pension increased.

CHAP. 117. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Angus Cameron.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Angus Cameron , late of Company G, Third Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 12, 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 96. ]
Abbie C. Bremner. Pension increased.

CHAP. 118. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abbie C. Bremner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abbie C. Bremner, widow of James Bremner, late of Company G, Thirty- fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 97.]
PFerendseiroincikncBruelaksleedy. .

CHAP. 119. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Bulkley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frederick Bulkley, late of Company A , Twentyseventh Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty -six dollars per month in iieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.

CHAP. 120. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Melinda Heard.

[Private, No. 98. ] Melinda Heard. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. Cs. 120-124. 1903.
laws , the name of Melinda Heard , widow of John A. Heard, late of Captain Jones's company, Georgia Volunteers , Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

1527

CHAP. 121.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sidney N. Lund.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sidney N. Lund, late of Company A, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 99. ]
SPiendsnieoynNi.nLcruenadse. d.

CHAP. 122. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James E. Bader.

January 12, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James E. Bader, late of Company H , Twentieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

[Private, No. 100. ] James E. Bader. Pension increased.

CHAP. 123. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Ham.

January 12, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Ham, late of Company E, Eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 101. ] David Ham. Pension increased.

CHAP. 124. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy A. Turner.

January 12, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 102. ]
Lucy A. Turner. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucy A. Turner, widow of William Turner, late of

Company G, Fifth Regiment Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu Proviso .
of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death Increase to cease on
of Nannie B. Turner, helpless and dependent child of said William death of child.

Turner, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine.

Approved, January 12 , 1903.

1528

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 125-129. 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 103. ]
Joanna Rommel. Pension.

CHAP. 125. --An Act Granting a pension to Joanna Rommel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joanna Rommel, widow of Benson M. Rommel , late of Company C, Second Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 104. ]
Ellen A. Sager. Pension .

CHAP . 126. --An Act Granting a pension to Ellen A. Sager.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen A. Sager, former widow of Charles C. Rogers, late of Company E, One hundred and thirteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 105. ]
Joseph S. Mess. Pension increased.

CHAP. 127. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph S. Mess.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph S. Mess , late musician , Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 106. ]
John D. Sullivan , Pension increased.

CHAP. 128. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John D. Sullivan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John D. Sullivan, late of Company C , Second Regiment lowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, the same to be paid to him without deduction or rebate for former alleged over payments or erroneous payments of pension .
Approved, January 12, 1903 .

January 12, 1903.
[Private, No. 107.]
Rebecca H. Geyer. Pension.

CHAP. 129. -An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca H. Geyer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 129-132 , 135. 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca H. Geyer, widow of Harvey Geyer, late first lieutenant Company C, One hundred and thirty -third Regiment West Virginia Militia , and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, January 12 , 1903 .

1529

CHAP. 130. -An Act Granting a pension to Cherstin Mattson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Cherstin Mattson , widow of Hans Mattson , late colonel Third Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month .
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

January 12, 1903 .
[Private , No, 108. ]
Cherstin Mattson. Pension.

CHAP. 131.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nannie M. Kimberly. January 12, 1903. [Private, No. 109. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Nannie M. Kim-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the berly. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws , the name of Nannie M. Kimberly, widow of Lewis A. Kimberly, late rear-admiral, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the
rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 12 , 1903.

CHAP. 132.- An Act For the relief of Surgeon John F. Bransford, United States January 12, 1903.

Navy.

[Private, No. 110. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United John F. Bransford. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Transfer on naval
Navy be, and he is hereby , authorized and empowered to transfer Sur- riezteidr.ed list authorgeon John F. Bransford, of the retired list of the United States Navy,

from the half- pay list to the seventy-five per centum pay list of retired officers, under section fifteen hundred and eighty-eight of the Revised Statutes ofthe United States , the original appointment and retirement of the said John F. Bransford under the provisions of the Act of Congress approved February fifth, nineteen hundred and one, having been authorized because of disability incurred while in discharge of duty as passed assistant surgeon during the Spanish war. The said transfer

R. S. , sec. 1588, p. 271. Vol. 31 , p. 1672.

shall take place as of the date of the passage of this Act.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 135. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Webb.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 111.]
Charles H. Webb. Pension increased.

1530

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 135-139 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Charles H. Webb, late of Company B, Second Regiment California Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13, 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 112.]
William D. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 136. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William D. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William D. Smith, late of Company E , Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 113.]
PAednrsiiaonnMi.ncSrneyasdeedr..

CHAP. 137. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Adrian M. Snyder.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Adrian M. Snyder, late of Company A, Twentythird Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 13, 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 114. ]
James W. Young. Pension increased.

CHAP. 138. - An Act Granting increase of pension to James W. Young.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of James W. Young, late of Company B, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 115.]
George Kerr. Pension increased.

CHAP . 139.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Kerr.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Kerr, late of Company G, Fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and first lieutenant Company A, Eightythird Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 140-144. 1903.

1531

CHAP. 140. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lizzie I. Rich.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 116.]
Lizzie I. Rich. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lizzie I. Rich, widow of William H. Rich , late of
Companies I and B , Thirty-first Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 141. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas P. May.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to piace on the pension roll , subject the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas P. May, late of Company G, Seventeenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 117.]
Thomas P. May. Pension increased.

CHAP. 142. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Hudson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Hudson , late captain Company H, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 118.]
William H. Hudson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 143. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Nelson.

January 13, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Nelson , late captain Company I, Eleventh Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 119. ] John C. Nelson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 144. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Newton W. Elmendorf. January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 120. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the doNrefw. ton W. ElmenInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Newton W. Elmendorf, late of Company C , Sixth

1532

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 144-148 . 1903.
Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903 .

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 145. --An Act Granting a pension to Martha A. Hollingsead.

[Private, No. 121. ]

Be itenacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

eaMda. rtha A. Hollings States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Martha A. Hollingsead, widow of Joseph Hollingsead, late of Company A, Fifteenth Regiment United States Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 122.]
Peter Poutney. Pension increased.

CHAP. 146. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter Poutney.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Poutney, late of Company E, Eighth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 123. ]
Ole Thompson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 147. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ole Thompson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ole Thompson , late of Company C , Eighth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13 , 1903.
[Private, No. 124. ]
Monora Stimson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 148. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Monora Stimson .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Monora Stimson, widow of Charles P. Stimson , late captain Company I , Forty-sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . . SESS . II. CHS . 149-153 . 1903.

1533

CHAP. 149. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stanton L. Brabham. January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 125.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Stanton L. Brab States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ham
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Stanton L. Brabham, late of Companies Hand D, Seventy-seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is
now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 150. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Sheridan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Sheridan , late captain Company K, Eightyseventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 126.]
Thomas Sheridan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 151. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William J. Remington. January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 127.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United William J. RemingStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ton Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William J. Remington , late of Company , First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 152. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harvey B. Linton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harvey B. Linton, late of Company I, Sixth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 128. ]
HPaenrsvieoynBi.ncLrienatsoend..

CHAP. 153 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas M. Owens.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 129. ]
Thomas M. Owens. Pension increased.

1534

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 153-157 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Thomas M. Owens, late of Company G, Forty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 130.]
George Atkinson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 154. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Atkinson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Atkinson , late of Company M, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 155. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Colmore L. Newman.

[Private, No. 131.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
CPoenlsmioorne Li.ncNreewasmead.n. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Colmore L. Newman, late of Company G, First

Regiment United States Voltigeurs, war with Mexico, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, January 13, 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 132. ]
James H. Joseph. Pension increased.

CHAP. 156. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Joseph.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. Joseph , late of Company D, Third Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 133. ]
Hiram Janes. Pension increased.

CHAP. 157. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram Janes.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram Janes, late of Company A, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 158-162 . 1903.

1535

CHAP. 158. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Kelley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Kelley, late of Company B, Seventeenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 134.]
William Kelley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 159. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William A. Henderson. January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 135. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soWni.lliam A. HenderInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension incrcased . pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. Henderson , late of Company C, Second Regiment North Carolina Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13 , 1903.

CHAP. 160. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel J. Byrnes.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel J. Byrnes, late of Company D, Thirty- fifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 136. ]
Daniel J. Byrnes. Pension increased.

CHAP. 161. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Stonesifer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Stonesifer, late of Company I, Eightyseventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 137.] JPoesnespihonStionncerseiafseerd. .

CHAP. 162. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Munson.

January 13, 1908.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 138. ]
Mary A. Munson. Pension increased .

1536

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 162-166 . 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Munson, widow of Morrison B. Munson, late first lieutenant Company A, One hundred and eighty- fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 139. ]
CPheanrsliootnteinEc.rBeaaisredd..

CHAP. 163. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charlotte E. Baird.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charlotte E. Baird, widow of George Baird, late

first lieutenant Company K, Fourth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 13 , 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 164.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. McKnight.

[Private, No. 140.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

JPaenmseisoHn.iMnccKrenaisgehdt. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James H. McKnight, late of Company E, One hundred and second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 13 , 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 165. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A: Wright.

[Private, No. 141.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

John A. Wright. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . '
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Wright, late of Company F, Eleventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 142. ]
James Brown. Pension increased .

CHAP. 166. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Brown, late of Company D, Eleventh Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 167-171 . 1903 .

1537

CHAP . 167. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Baker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Baker, late of Company K, Twenty-third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 18, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 143. ]
George Baker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 168. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caroline M. Stone.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline M. Stone, widow of William M. Stone, late colonel Twenty- second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 144.]
Caroline M. Stone. Pension increased.

CHAP. 169. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bailey O. Bowden.

January 13, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bailey O. Bowden, late of Company A , One hundred and twenty-second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903.

[Private, No. 145. ] BPaeinlseiyonO.inBcorweadseend..

CHAP. 170. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Young.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Young, late captain Company H, One hundred and fifty-third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 146.]
George H. Young. Pension increased .

Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

CHAP. 171. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles K. Batey.

January 13, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place. on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -20

[Private , No. 147.]
Charles K. Batey. Pension increased.

1538

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 171-175. 1903.
laws, the name of Charles K. Batey, late of Company A Second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, Company D, Seventieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, Eightysixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 148.]
Charles E. Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 172 .-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles E. Brown.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles E. Brown , late of Company G, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty - six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 149.]
John S. Crosser. Pension increased.

CHAP. 173. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Crosser.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John S. Crosser, late of Company C, Ninety - seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 174. -An Act Granting a pension to Joseph H. Woodruff.

[Private, No. 150. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

JPoesnespihonH.. Woodruff. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Joseph H. Woodruff, late of Company E, Fourth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 175. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John G. Heiser.

[Private, No. 151.]
John G. Heiser. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John G. Heiser, late of Company A, Seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 176-180 . 1903 .

1539

CHAP. 176. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Freeman R. Gove.
Be it enacted by the Senateand House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Freeman R. Gove, late of Company K, Fourth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 152.]
Freeman R. Gove. Pension increased.

CHAP. 177. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Chedester.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. Chedester, late of Company E, Fourth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 153.]
James H. Chedester. Pension increased .

CHAP. 178.--- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles M. Grainger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles M. Grainger, late first lieutenant Company B, Eighty -eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 154.]
Charles M. Grainger. Pension increased .

CHAP. 179. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Brown, late of Company B, One hundred and fifty-fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 155.]
Samuel Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 180. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert M. Scott.

January 13, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[ Private, No. 156.]
Albert M. Scott. Pension increased.

1540

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 180-184 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Albert M. Scott, late of Company B, Second Regiment Maine Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 181. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fannie S. Cross.

[Private, No. 157. ]
Fannie S. Cross. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie S. Cross, widow of William Cross, late colonel

Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension

at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903.

January 13, 1903. [Private, No. 158. ]
TPeinmsoitohnyinDcorneoahseude..

CHAP. 182. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Timothy Donohoe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Timothy Donohoe, late of Company B, Sixty- ninth

Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 13, 1903 .

January 13, 1903.

CHAP. 183. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennett Stewart.

[Private, No. 159. ]
Jennett Stewart. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennett Stewart, widow of Alfred Stewart, late of

Company L, Seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay

her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that

Proviso. Increase to cease on

she is now receiving :

Provided,

however,

That in the case of the death

death of child.

of the helpless child, Josephine Stewart, on whose account the pension

of Jennett Stewart is increased, the pension of said Jennett Stewart shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child .

Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 160. ]
John Q. A. Rider. Pension increased.

CHAP. 184.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Q. A. Rider.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Q. A. Rider, late first lieutenant Company E, Ninety- first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 13, 1903.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS . 185 , 191 , 193 , 198 , 199. 1903. 1541

CHAP. 185. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Grace M. Read.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Grace M. Read, widow of Frank D. Read, late lieutenant, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 13 , 1903 .

January 13, 1903.
[Private, No. 161. ]
Grace M. Read. Pension increased.

CHAP. 191. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William S. Barker.

January 15, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William S. Barker, late captain Companies E and K, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 15, 1903.

[Private, No. 162.] William S. Barker. Pension increased .

CHAP. 193. -An Act For the relief of John A. Mason.

January 19, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to credit the accounts of John A. Mason , collector of internal revenue for the second collection district of New York, with the sum of four hundred and thirty thousand two hundred and forty-nine dollars and eighty-three and one-third cents, being the value of internal-revenue stamps destroyed by fire at the office of said collector, number one hundred and fourteen Nassau street, New York, New York, on the night of February eleventh, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight.
Approved, January 19 , 1903.

[ Private, No. 163. ] JCroehdnitA.inMaacscoonu.nts.

CHAP. 198. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Compton.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Compton, late of Company I, Sixteenth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 164. ]
John Compton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 199. -An Act Granting a pension to Dorcas McArdle.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[ Private, No. 165. ]
Dorcas McArdle. Pension.

1542

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 199-203 . 1903.
laws, the name of Dorcas McArdle, widow of Barney McArdle, late of Captain Mahone's company, First Regiment Georgia Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 166. ]
duBsenjamin S. Bogar Pension increased.

CHAP. 200. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin S. Bogardus.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin S. Bogardus , late of Company H, One hundred and seventieth Regiment Ohio National Guard Volunteer

Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 167.]
Robert Miller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 201. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Miller, late of Company B, First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 168.]
Gotthard Koerner. Pension increased.

CHAP . 202. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gotthard Koerner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gotthard Koerner, late of Company B, Sixteenth

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 169.]
Thomas Kirwan. Pension increased.

CHAP . 203. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Kirwan.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Kirwan, late of Company K, Seventeenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars a month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 204-208. 1903.

1543

CHAP. 204. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Dalrymple.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Dalrymple, late of Company G, One hundred and seventy-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 170.]
CPheanrslieosnDianlcrryeamspelde..

CHAP. 205. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza A. Rickards.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension. laws, the name of Eliza A. Rickards, widow of William Rickards, junior, late colonel Twenty -ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 171.]
Eliza A. Rickards. Pension increased.

CHAP. 206. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Laughlin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Laughlin , late of Company G, Twenty -sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 172. ]
John Laughlin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 207. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to David T. Nuttle.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David T. Nuttle, late of Company I, Ninetyseventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 173. ]
David T. Nuttle. Pension increased.

CHAP. 208. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lysander D. Trent.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 174.]
Lysander D. Trent. Pension increased.

1544

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 208-212. 1903.
laws, the name of Lysander D. Trent, late of Company I , Nineteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 175.]
Charles S. Ely. Pension increased.

CHAP. 209. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles S. Ely.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles S. Ely, late of Company B, Forty- third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 176.]
Ida M. Kinney. Pension.

CHAP. 210. -An Act Granting a pension to Ida M. Kinney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ida M. Kinney, widow of Harvey L. Kinney, late of Company D, One hundred and tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 177.] William Burke. Pension increased .

CHAP. 211. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Burke.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Burke, late of Company K, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP . 212. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Theresia Ziegenfuss.

[Private, No. 178. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PTehenrseisoinaiZnicergeeansfeuds.s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Theresia Ziegenfuss , widow of Christopher Ziegen-

fuss , late of Company F, Twelfth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu

Proviso. Increase to cease on

of that she is now receiving:

Provided, however, That in the case of the

death of child.

death of the helpless child, Anna Maria Ziegenfuss, on whose account

the pension of Theresia Ziegenfuss is increased, the pension of said Theresia Ziegenfuss shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per

month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS. 213-217 . 1903.

1545

CHAP. 213. - An Act Granting a pension to Emily S. Barrett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emily S. Barrett, dependent mother of William H. Barrett, late of Company F, Sixteenth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 179. ]
Emily S. Barrett. Pension.

CHAP. 214. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lawson Williams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lawson Williams, late of Company B, Twentysecond Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 180.]
Lawson Williams. Pension increased.

CHAP. 215. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isadora F. Maxfield .

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isadora F. Maxfield, widow of Wesley Maxfield, late of Company E, Ninth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

[Private, No. 181. ]
Isadora F. Maxfield. Pension increased.

CHAP. 216. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Glenn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Glenn, late of Company C, One hundredth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903 .

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 182.]
John Glenn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 217. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Watts.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[ Private, No. 183.]
James H. Watts. Pension increased.

1546

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. Cs. 217-221 . 1903.
laws, the name of James H. Watts, late of Company D, Fiftieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 184. ]
Eliza Knight. Pension increased.

CHAP. 218. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza Knight.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza Knight, widow of James F. Knight, late captain Company F, Twenty- eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 185. ]
Lucy G. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 219. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy G. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucy G. Smith, widow of George W. Smith , late of Company C, Eighth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 186. ]
William A. Miller. Pension.

CHAP. 220. - An Act Granting a pension to William A. Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. Miller, late of Company C, Third Regiment Ohio State Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP . 221. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram S. Leffingwell.

[Private, No. 187. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
weHlil.ram S. Leffing States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Hiram S. Leffingwell, late surgeon, Sixty-fifth

Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 222-226 . 1903.

1547

CHAP. 222.-An Act Granting a pension to Lillie May Fifield .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lillie May Fifield , helpless and dependent daughter of Henry Fifield , late of Company D, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 188.]
Lillie May Fifield. Pension.

CHAP. 223. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin White.

1 January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin White, late of Company E, One hundred and thirty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

[Private, No. 189.]
Benjamin White. Pension increased.

CHAP. 224. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Morris M. Comstock.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Morris M. Comstock, late of Company L, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Engineers and Mechanics , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 190.]
Morris M.Comstock. Pension increased .

CHAP. 225.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Canty.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Canty, late of Battery M, Third Regiment United States Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 191.]
John Canty. Pension increased .

CHAP. 226. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Remembrance J. January 22, 1903.

Williams.

[Private, No. 192.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Remembrance J.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Williams. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

1548

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 226-230, 1903.
laws, the name of Remembrance J. Williams, late of Company D, Sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 193.]

CHAP. 227. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. Buchanan.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United anWainl.liam J. Buch- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Buchanan, late of Company B, Twenty-

sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 194.]
Henry Forcht. Pension increased.

CHAP. 228.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Forcht.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Forcht, late of Company H, Seventy- eighth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 229. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Christian.

[Private, No. 195.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

WPielnslioanm iCnhcrriesatsieadn. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William Christian , late of Company K, Thirty- first

Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 230. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Robinson.

[Private, No. 196.]
John Robinson. Pension increased.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Robinson , late of Company D, Seventeenth

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 231-235 . 1903 .

1549

CHAP. 231. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sylvester Holiday.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sylvester Holiday, late of Company E, Fifteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22 , 1903. [Private, No. 197. ]
Sylvester Holiday. Pension increased.

CHAP. 232. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Parmenas F. Harris.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Parmenas F. Harris, late of Company I, One hun-dredth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 198. ]
Parmenas F. Harris. Pension increased.

CHAP. 233.--An Act Granting a pension to John S. Upshaw.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Upshaw, late captain independent cavalry company, Douglas County, Missouri, Home Guards, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 199.]
John S. Upshaw. Pension.

CHAP. 234. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James R. Ambrose.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James R. Ambrose, late of Company A , Second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 200.]
James R. Ambrose. Pension increased.

CHAP. 235. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane Brosnan,
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane Brosnan, widow of Timothy Brosnan , late of Company I, Thirty -seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 201.]
Jane Brosnan, Pension increased

1550

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 236-240. 1903.

January 22, 1908.
[Private, No. 202. ]
Alexander Curd. Pension increased.

CHAP. 236. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander Curd.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alexander Curd , late of Company B, Twentieth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 203.]
PMeinnseirovna. Robinson .

CHAP. 237. -An Act Granting a pension to Minerva Robinson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Minerva Robinson , widow of James Robinson, late

of Companies F and B, First Regiment Missouri Volunteer Engineers, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 204. ]
Mina Weirauch. Pension.

CHAP. 238. -An Act Granting a pension to Mina Weirauch.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Mina Weirauch , widow of Heinrich Weirauch, late of Company L, Fourth Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 205. ]
John L. Moore. Pension increased.

CHAP. 239. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John L. Moore.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John L. Moore, late of Company A, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 240. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jonathan H. Slocum.

[Private, No. 206. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

cuJmo.nathan H. Slo- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Jonathan H. Slocum, late of Seventh Company, First Battalion, New York Volunteer Sharpshooters, and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS . 241-245 . 1903 .

1551

CHAP. 241. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry W. Gaskill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry W. Gaskill, late first lieutenant Company K, Twelfth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 207.]
Henry W. Gaskill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 242. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Sims.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James D. Sims , late of Company F, Sixty-first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 208. ]
James D. Sims. Pension increased.

CHAP . 243. -An Act Granting a pension to Ellen F. Pook.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen F. Pook, widow of Samuel H. Pook, late captain, United States Navy , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, January 22, 1903 .

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 209.]
Ellen F. Pook. Pension.

CHAP. 244. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew J. Hertzog.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew J. Hertzog, late of Company D, Fourteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 210.] Andrew J. Hertzog. Pension increased .

CHAP. 245. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Ashmore.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Ashmore, late of Company F, Fifteenth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 211. ]
Samuel Ashmore. Pension increased.

1552

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 246-250. 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 212.]
Nelson Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 246. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nelson Brown.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nelson Brown , late of Company G, One hundred and ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 247. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Benefeldt.

[Private, No. 213.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

felFdrte. derick Bene- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frederick Benefeldt, late of Company C, Sixteenth

Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving,

the same to be paid to his duly constituted conservator.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 214. ]
Allen C. Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 248. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Allen C. Davis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Allen C. Davis, late of Company G, One hundred and thirteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 249. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph W. Robertson.

[Private, No. 215. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

soJno.seph W. Robert States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Joseph W. Robertson, late of Company K, First and

Fourth regiments Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he

is now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 216. ]
Wallace K. May. Pension increased.

CHAP . 250. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wallace K. May.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 250-254. 1903.
laws, the name of Wallace K. May, late of Company A, Twenty -fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

1553

CHAP. 251.-An Act Granting a pension to Abner H. Lester.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abner H. Lester, late of Company I , Thirty- ninth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 217.]
Abner H. Lester. Pension.

CHAP. 252. -An Act Granting a pension to Edward A. Branham.

January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 218. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Edward A. Bran-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ham.
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward A. Branham, late landsman , United States

Navy.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

CHAP. 253. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eberhard P. Lieberg.

January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 219. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Lie-

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the beErbge. rhard P.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Eberhard P. Lieberg, late of Company H, Fourth

Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

CHAP. 254. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edmond Likes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edmond Likes, late of Company F, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -21

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 220.]
Edmond Likes. Pension increased.

1554

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 255-259. 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private No. 221. ]
John T. Mull. Pension increased.

CHAP. 255. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John T. Mull.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John T. Mull, late of Company H, Fourteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 222.]
Magnus J. Cohn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 256. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Magnus J. Cohn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Magnus J. Cohn , late of Company A, Twentyseventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 257. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan Parker.

[Private, No. 223.]
Susan Parker. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan Parker, widow of Thomas Parker, late second

lieutenant Company D, Twentieth Regiment United States Colored

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars

per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 258. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ransford T. Chase.

[Private, No. 224.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PRaennssfioornd iTn.crCehaassede.. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ransford T. Chase, late of Company F, Ninth Regiment United States Veteran Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 259. An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth J. Emery.

[Private, No. 225. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PEleinzsaiboenthinJc.rEeamseerdy. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 259-263 . 1903.
laws, the name of Elizabeth J. Emery , widow of Maril D. Emery, late of Company M, Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

1555

CHAP. 260. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John J. Cross.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John J. Cross, late of Company H, Eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903.

[Private, No. 226. ]
John J. Cross. Pension increased.

CHAP. 261. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William G. Cantley.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William G. Cantley, late orderly sergeant Captain James L. Brown's company, South Carolina Volunteers , Florida Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 227. ]
William G. Cantley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 262. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clarence D. Hess.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clarence D. Hess, late captain Company G, Thirteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private , No. 228.] CPleanrseinocneiDn.crHeeasssed. .

CHAP. 263.-An Act Granting a pension to Ira P. Smith.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ira P. Smith, late acting assistant surgeon, United
States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

[Private , No. 229.] PIreansPi.oSnm. ith.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

1556

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 264-268 . 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 264. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Stanley.

[Private, No. 230. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
WPeinlsliioanm iFn.crSetaasnelde.y. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William F. Stanley, late of Company G, Fortieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved , January 22 , 1903 .

January 22 , 1903.
[Private, No. 231.]
James P. Thomas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 265. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James P. Thomas.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James P. Thomas, late of Company I, Fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22 , 1903.
[Private, No. 232.]
Francis C. Baker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 266. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis C. Baker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis C. Baker, late of Company A , One hundred and forty-seventh, and Company C, Ninety -first, Regiments New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 233. ]
Mary V. Scriven. Pension.

CHAP. 267. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary V. Scriven.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary V. Scriven, widow of Gardner R. Scriven, late acting surgeon, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 268. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Hargreaves.

[Private, No. 234. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

RPoebnesritonHianrcgrreeaasvedes. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Robert Hargreaves, late principal musician First

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 268-272. 1903.
Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

1557

CHAP. 269. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anson Greenman.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anson Greenman, late of Company B, Eighty- fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 235. ] Anson Greenman. Pension increased .

CHAP. 270. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. McVicker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. McVicker, late of Company E, Eightyeighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 236. ]
James H. McVicker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 271. -An Act Granting a pension to Fannie E. Strohauer.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private, No. 237. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the haFuaenr.nie E. StroInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension. pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie E. Strohauer, widow of Henry Strohauer, late of Company F, Eighty -third Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, such pension, however, to cease upon proof that the soldier is still living.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 272.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to James J. Wilson.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James J. Wilson, late of Company E , Eightyseventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 238. ]
James J. Wilson. Pension increased.

1558

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 273-277. 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 239.] PHeinrsaimonA.. Sheldon.

CHAP. 273. -An Act Granting a pension to Hiram A. Sheldon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram A. Sheldon, late captain Company C , First

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 274.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John R. Curry.

[Private, No. 240. ]
John R. Curry. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John R. Curry , late of Company G, Thirteenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 241.]
Emil Pfeiffer. Pension increased .

CHAP. 275.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emil Pfeiffer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Emil Pfeiffer, late of Company B, Forty- sixth

Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 276. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Wright.

[Private, No. 242.]
John Wright. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Wright , late of Company K, One hundred and

eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 22 , 1903.

January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 277. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John D. Thompson.

[Private, No. 243.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

JPoenhsnioD.n Tinhcormepasseodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of John D. Thompson , late of Company M, Fiftieth

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 277-281 . 1903 .
Regiment New York Volunteer Engineers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22, 1903 .

1559

CHAP. 278.-An Act Granting a pension to Charles E. Peake.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles E. Peake, late of Company C, Seventh Battalion District of Columbia Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 244.]
Charles E. Peake. Pension.

CHAP. 279.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Huckelberry. January 22, 1903. [Private, No. 245.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United John W. HuckelStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the berry. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Huckelberry , late of Company D, Fourth
Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

CHAP. 280 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Clark.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Clark, late of Company 1, Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 22, 1903.

[Private, No. 246.] RPoebnesritonClianrckre. ased.

CHAP. 281. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harry C. Fay.

January 22, 1903.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harry C. Fay, late captain, Company H, Ninetysecond Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 22 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 247.]
Harry C. Fay. Pension increased

1560

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 282-286 . 1903.

January 22, 1903.
[Private, No. 248.]
Samuel S. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 282.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel S. Smith .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel S. Smith, late of Company D, First Regi-

ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, January 22, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 249.]
PMeanbseiroyn iHn.cPrreeasleedy. .

CHAP. 283. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mabery H. Presley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mabery H. Presley , late of Company D, One hundred and forty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 250. ]
PFelentscihoenriJn.crWeaalskeedr. .

CHAP. 284. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fletcher J. Walker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Fletcher J. Walker, late of Company A, First Reg-

iment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 251.]
Joanna Rogers. Pension .

CHAP. 285. -An Act Granting a pension to Joanna Rogers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joanna Rogers, widow of Alma Rogers, late of Company C, Seventy-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903 .

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 286. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ambrus U. Harrison ,

[Private, No. 252. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

soAnm. brus U. Harri States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . Cs. 286-290. 1903.
laws, the name of Ambrus U. Harrison, late of Company B, Ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903 .

1561

CHAP . 287. -- An Act Granting a pension to Judson N. Pollard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Judson N. Pollard, late of Company B, One hundred and fortieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and scout and spy, United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 253.]
Judson N. Pollard. Pension.

CHAP. 288. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas L. Caughey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas L. Caughey, late of Company D, Thirtyeighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 254.]
Thomas L. Caughey Pension increased.

CHAP. 289. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William S. Frost.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
the name of William S. Frost, late of Company A, Thirteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 255.]
William S. Frost. Pension increased.

CHAP. 290. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Almond Partridge.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Almond Partridge , late of Company B, Sixty- fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private , No. 256. ]
Almond Partridge. Pension increased.

1562

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 291-295. 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 257.]
WPielnlsiaomn.Johnston.

CHAP. 291. - An Act Granting a pension to William Johnston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Johnston, late of Company G, One hundred and ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and Company D, Forty-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Emergency Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903 .

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 258.]
Justus L. Denton. Pension.

CHAP. 292. -An Act Granting a pension to Justus L. Denton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Justus L. Denton , late of Company E, Eighty-fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 259.]
Elias Brewster. Pension increased.

CHAP. 293. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias Brewster.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias Brewster, late of Company K, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 260.]
Eliza M. Miller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 294. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza M. Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza M. Miller, widow of James H. Miller, late first lieutenant Company H, Fifty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty -five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private , No. 261. ]
Eliza A. Walker. Pension increased.

CHAP. 295. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza A. Walker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza A. Walker, widow of Adam L. Walker, late captain Company B, Thirty -eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 295-299. 1903.
Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Adam L. Walker until he reaches the age of sixteen years .
Approved, January 23, 1903.

1563

CHAP. 296. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Thomas.

January 23, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Thomas , late of Company G, Twelfth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and captain Company B , One hundred and forty-second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

[Private, No. 262. ] James M. Thomas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 297. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Edmonds.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Edmonds, late of Company C, Fourth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 263. ]
GPeeonrsgieonW.inEcdrmeaosnedds. .

CHAP. 298. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Catharine A. Carroll.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catharine A. Carroll, widow of William Carroll, late of Company F, Seventh Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 264.]
CatharineA. Carroll. Pension increased .

CHAP. 299. --An Act Granting a pension to Henry R. Gibbs.

January 23, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry R. Gibbs, late of Company G, Thirteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 265. ] HPeennsriyonR.. Gibbs.

1564

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II CHS. 300-304. 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 266. ]
William Barrett. Pension increased.

CHAP. 300. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Barrett.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Barrett, late of Company E , First Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 301.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abraham Shreeves.

[Private, No. 267.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United APebnrsaihonaminSchrreeaesveeds. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Abraham Shreeves, late of Company F, Fourteenth

Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 268. ]
Corydon Millard. Pension increased .

CHAP. 302. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Corydon Millard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Corydon Millard , late chaplain Fourth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 303. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah A. Whitcomb.

[Private, No. 269. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

SPaernsaihoAn. iWnhcirteacsoemdb. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah A. Whitcomb, widow of Asahel D. Whitcomb,

late first lieutenant Company E, First Regiment Missouri Volunteer

Engineers, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 304. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry J. McFadden.

[Private, No. 270. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United PHeennsriyoJn. iMnccFraeadsdeedn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II.. CHS. 304-308. 1903 .
laws, the name of Henry J. McFadden, late second lieutenant Company D, Forty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23, 1903.

1565

CHAP. 305.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Dick.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Dick, late of Company F, Fifty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 271.]
John W. Dick. Pension increased.

CHAP. 306. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah D. Bereman.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah D. Bereman, widow of Alvah H. Bereman , late captain Company C, Eighteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and colonel Forty- fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 272.]
Sarah D. Bereman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 307. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Nichol.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and iimitations of the pension laws, the name of William Nichol, late of Company G, Seventy- sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23, 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 273.]
William Nichol. Pension increased.

CHAP. 308. -An Act. Granting an increase of pension to Abraham Park.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abraham Park , late of Company H, One hundred and twenty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 274.]
Abraham Park. Pension increased.

1566

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 309-313. 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 275.]
Hannah E. James. Pension increased.

CHAP. 309. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hannah E. James.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah E. James, widow of Charles C. James, late of Company K, Thirty- sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 276.]
Lyman Hotaling. Pension increased .

CHAP. 310. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lyman Hotaling.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lyman Hotaling, late of Company L , Fourth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 277.]
PDeansiielonD. ougherty.

CHAP. 311. --An Act Granting a pension to Daniel Dougherty.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Dougherty, late of Company D, Fifth Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 312. - An Act Granting a pension to William H. Durham.

[Private, No. 278. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
PWeinlsliioanm.H. Durham. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Durham , helpless and dependent child

of Tolford Durham , late of Company A, Fourth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars. per month.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 279. ]
George W. Berry. Pension increased.

CHAP . 313. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Berry.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 313-317 . 1903.
laws, the name of George W. Berry, late of Company H, One hundred and sixtieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

1567

CHAP. 314. -An Act Granting a pension to Asa E. Sampson.
 Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Asa E. Sampson , late of Company G, Forty- ninth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 280. ]
Asa E. Sampson. Pension .

CHAP. 315. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wallace Fairbank.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Wallace Fairbank, late of Company H, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 281. ]
Wallace Fairbank. Pension increased.

CHAP. 316. -- An Act Granting a pension to Preston W. Burford.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Preston W. Burford , late of Company B, Twentysixth Regiment Enrolled Missouri Militia , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, January 23 , 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 282.]
Preston W. Burford. Pension.

CHAP. 317. --An Act Granting a pension to Etta A. Whitehouse.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Etta A. Whitehouse, widow of Turner W. Whitehouse, late captain Company K, Twenty-second Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 283. ]
Etta A. Whitehouse. Pension.

1568

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 318-322. 1903.

January 23, 1903.

CHAP. 318. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick W. Willey,

[Private, No. 284.] alias William F. Willey.

Frederick W. Wil- Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United ley, alias William F. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Willey. Pension increased.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frederick W. Willey, alias William F. Willey, late

of United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty

dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private , No. 285.]
Reuben Andrews. Pension increased.

CHAP. 319. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Reuben Andrews.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Reuben Andrews, late of Company G, Ninth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903. [Private, No. 286. ]
PTehnosmiaosn iL.ncCroelalsiends..

CHAP. 320.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas L. Collins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas L. Collins, late of Company H, Twelfth

Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 287. ]
Henry E. Burton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 321. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry E. Burton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry E. Burton, late second lieutenant Company I , Thirty-fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 288. ]
Allen M. Ripley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 322. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Allen M. Ripley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Allen M. Ripley, late of Company K, Fourth

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 322-326 . 1903.
Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903 .

1569

CHAP. 323. --An Act Granting a pension to Dicey Woodall.

January 23, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dicey Woodall, widow of William W. Woodall, late of Captain John Padget's company of Florida Volunteers , Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

[Private, No. 289.]
Dicey Woodall. Pension.

CHAP. 324.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Morrow.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah E. Morrow, widow of James Morrow, late of Company B, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said James Morrow until it reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 290. ]
Sarah E. Morrow. Pension increased.

CHAP. 325.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert H. Phillips.

January 23, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert H. Phillips, late of Company A, Thirtyfourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23, 1903.

[Private , No. 291. ]
Albert H. Phillips. Pension increased.

CHAP. 326. -An Act Granting a pension to John W. Bruff.

January 23, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Bruff, late unassigned recruit, Fifteenth Regiment New York Volunteer Engineers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

[Private , No. 292. ]
John W. Bruff. Pension.

Approved, January 23, 1903 . VOL XXXII , PT 2- -22

1570

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 327-331 . 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 293.]
Luman Fuller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 327. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Luman Fuller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Luman Fuller, late of Company C , One hundred and twenty-fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, January 23 , 1903.

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 294. ]
Mathias Custers. Pension increased.

CHAP. 328. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mathias Custers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mathias Custers, late of Company L, Third Regiment lowa Volunteer Veteran Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903 .

January 23, 1903.
[Private, No. 295. ]
Cyrus G. Norton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 329. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cyrus G. Norton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cyrus G. Norton , late of Company K, One hundred and first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, January 23, 1903.

January 24, 1903.
[Private, No. 296.]
Flora A. Darling. Relief of.

CHAP. 330. - An Act For the relief of Flora A. Darling.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to Mrs. Flora A. Darling, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of five thousand six hundred and eighty-three dollars, in full satisfaction of all claims growing out of her arrest , imprisonment, and the seizure of her property by military authority at the city of New Orleans, in January, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, while on a flag-of-truce boat under protection of a safe-conduct given her by Major-General N. P. Banks, then commanding the Department of the Gulf.
Approved, January 24, 1903.

January 24, 1903.

CHAP. 331. -An Act For the relief of Hiram C. Walker.

[Private, No. 297. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Hiram C. Walker. Granted honorable States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

discharge.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of

absence without leave from the name of Hiram C. Walker, late first

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 331 , 341 , 347, 348 , 352. 1903. 1571
lieutenant of Company C, Tenth Regiment Illinois Cavalry, and to issue to him an honorable discharge to date from June eighteenth, anno Domini eighteen hundred and sixty-three.
Approved, January 24, 1903 .

CHAP. 341. -An Act For the relief of Julius A. Kaiser.

January 30, 1903.

[Private, No. 298.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the

Julius A. Kaiser. Appointment on na-

United States be , and he is hereby , authorized to nominate and , by and viazeldr.etired list authorwith the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint Julius A. Kaiser Grade.

upon the retired list of the Navy, in the grade of passed assistant

engineer, as of the date he was entitled by law or navy regulations to examination for promotion from assistant engineer to said grade.

Approved, January 30 , 1903 .

CHAP. 347. --An Act For the relief of J. V. Worley.

January 31 , 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of forty dollars is hereby appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and that the same be paid to J. V. Worley, of Hardin County, Tennessee, to reimburse him for a like sum wrongfully collected from him by the United States marshal for the eastern division of the western district of Tennessee, in the sixth judicial circuit thereof.
Approved, January 31 , 1903.

[Private, No. 299. ] Rei.mbWuorrsleemy.ent of,

CHAP. 348. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James D. Kiper.

January 31, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James D. Kiper, late of Company I, Twenty-seventh Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, January 31 , 1903.

[ Private, No. 300. ] James D. Kiper. Pension increased.

CHAP. 352. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Levi H. Peddycoard.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Levi H. Peddycoard , late of Company I, Thirtieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 2 , 1903.

[Private, No. 301. ] LPevnisiHo.nPiendcdryecasoeadr.d .

1572

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 353-357. 1903 .

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 353. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sydda B. Arnold.

[Private, No. 302. ]

Sydda B. Arnold.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sydda B. Arnold , widow of Abraham K. Arnold,

late brigadier-general , United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 303. ]
NPenlsioonnWi.ncCraeralsteodn..

CHAP. 354. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nelson W. Carlton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nelson W. Carlton , late of Company K, Second

Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 304. ]
Annie A. Neary. Pension increased.

CHAP. 355. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie A. Neary.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie A. Neary, widow of William C. Neary, late first lieutenant, Fourth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of

that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said William C. Neary until she reaches the age of sixteen years .

Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 356. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hamline B. Williams.

[Private, No. 305. ] Hamline B. Wil- StaBteesitoefnaAcmteerdibcyathienSCeonnagtreeasnsdaHsoseumsbeloedf,ReTphraetsentthaetiSveecsroetfatrhye Uonfittheed liams. Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hamline B. Williams, late of Company D, Twenty-

first Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 2, 1903 .

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 306. ]
Wesley S. Potter. Pension increased.

CHAP. 357. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wesley S. Potter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 357-361 . 1903 .
laws , the name of Wesley S. Potter, late captain Company D, Thirtysixth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

1573

CHAP. 358.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel E. Ewing.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel E. Ewing, late of Company I , Third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

[Private, No. 307. ]
Samuel E. Ewing. Pension increased.

CHAP. 359. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Laura S. Picking.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Laura S. Picking, widow of Henry F. Picking, late rear-admiral, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Henry F. Picking until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 2 , 1903 .

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 308. ]
Laura S. Picking. Pension increased.

CHAP. 360. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary L. Purington.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary L. Purington, widow of George A. Purington, late lieutenant-colonel Third Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903 .

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 309. ]
Mary L. Purington. Pension increased.

CHAP. 361. -An Act Granting a pension to Martha Elizabeth Hench.

February 2, 1903.

[Private, No. 310. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the

Secretary of the Martha Hench.

Elizabeth

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Martha Elizabeth Hench, widow of George Hench,

late of Company I , Thirty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer

Emergency Militia, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 2 , 1903.

1574

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 362-366 . 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 311. ]
Winfield S. Piety. Pension increased.

CHAP. 362. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Winfield S. Piety.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Winfield S. Piety, late of Company F, Sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 363. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William A. Kimball.

[Private, No. 312. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
WPienlsliioanm iAn.cKriemabsaedl.l. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William A. Kimball, late of Company H, Fifty- first

Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and Company A, Second

Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 313.]
Oliver P. Helton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 364. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver P. Helton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver P. Helton , late of Company G, First Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2, 1903 .

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 314. ]
James Mealey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 365. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Mealey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Mealey, late of Company K, Third Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and Company A, Sixth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 315. ]
Jonas Olmstead. Pension increased.

CHAP. 366. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jonas Olmstead .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 366-370. 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jonas Olmstead, late second lieutenant Company G, Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 2, 1903.

1575

CHAP. 367. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leroy Roberts.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leroy Roberts, late of Company F, Thirty-seventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2, 1903.

[Private, No. 316.]
Leroy Roberts. Pension increased.

CHAP. 368. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza C. Deery.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza C. Deery , widow of James Deery, late first lieutenant Company K, Fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 317. ]
Eliza C. Deery. Pension increased.

CHAP. 369. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Elizabeth Fales. February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 318. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
Elizabeth States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the FaMleasr. y Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Elizabeth Fales, widow of William R. Fales ,
alias William Webb, late of United States steamer Tallapoosa , United
States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

CHAP. 370. - An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth Jacobs.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Jacobs, widow of Stephen Jacobs, late of Company B, Fifth Regiment Massachusetts Colored Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 319. ]
Elizabeth Jacobs, Pension.

1576

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 371-375. 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No.320. ]
Andrew Ady. Pension.

CHAP. 371. -An Act Granting a pension to Andrew Ady.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew Ady, late of Company E , Sixty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP . 372. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary B. Heddleson.

[Private, No. 321. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

PMeanrsyioBn. iHnecdrdelaesesdon. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary B. Heddleson , widow of John M. Heddleson ,

late second lieutenant Company B, Third Regiment Kentucky Volun-

teer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of

twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , February 2 , 1903 .

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 322. ]
Frederick Kropf. Pension increased.

CHAP. 373. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Kropf.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Frederick Kropf, late of Company B, Eleventh

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 323. ]
John J. Rees. Pension increased .

CHAP. 374. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John J. Rees.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John J. Rees , late of Company F, Seventh Regi-

ment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 375. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alfred O. Blood.

[Private, No. 324. ]
Alfred O. Blood. Pension increased .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 375-379. 1903.
laws, the name of Alfred O. Blood , late of Company I, Twenty-fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2, 1903 .

1577

CHAP. 376. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Stott.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Stott, late of Company I , Eighty-ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 325. ] GPenosrigoenWi.ncSrteoatts.ed .

CHAP. 377. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Maxwell. February 2, 1903 .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 326.]

William States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the well.

H.

Max-

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Maxwell, late captain Company D, Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 378.--An Act Granting a pension to Dollie Cosens.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dollie Cosens, the helpless and dependent daughter of Henry Clay Cosens, late of Company C, Thirtieth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 327.]
Dollie Cosens. Pension .

CHAP. 379. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Flinn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Flinn, late of Captain Dickerson's company, North Carolina Volunteers, Cherokee Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 328. ]
William Flinn . Pension increased.

Approved, February 2, 1903.

1578

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 380-384. 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 380. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George A. King.

[Private, No. 329. ]
George A. King. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George A. King, late of Eighteenth Independent

Battery, Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved , February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 330. ]
Henry E. Spring. Pension increased.

CHAP. 381. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry E. Spring.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry E. Spring, late of Company K, Eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 331.]
Nicholas Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 382. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nicholas Smith .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nicholas Smith , late captain Company H, Thirtythird Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2, 1903 .

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 383. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton Frazier.

[Private, No. 332. ]
Milton Frazier. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Milton Frazier, late of Company A, First Regiment Missouri Volunteer Engineers , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 2 , 1903 .

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 333. ]
Mary Manes. Pension increased .

CHAP. 384. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Manes.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Manes, widow of Pleasant R. Manes, late of

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 384-388 . 1903.
Captain Elliott's company, Tennessee Mounted Infantry, Cherokee Indian disturbance, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903 .

1579

CHAP. 385. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fannie McHarg.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie McHarg, widow of John McHarg, late of Company B, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry , war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 334. ]
Fannie McHarg. Pension increased.

CHAP. 386. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Markle.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Markle, late of Company F, Twenty- ninth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2, 1903.

[Private, No. 335. ] William Markle. Pension increased.

CHAP. 387. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lila L. Egbert.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lila L. Egbert, widow of Augustus R. Egbert, late captain, Second Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved , February 2, 1903.

[ Private, No. 336.] Lila L. Egbert. Pension increased .

CHAP. 388. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary B. Keller.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary B. Keller, widow of Charles Keller, late colonel Twenty-third Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Charles Keller until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

[Private, No. 337. ] Mary B. Keller. Pension increased.

1580

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS. 389-393. 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 338.]

CHAP. 389. -An Act Granting a pension to Emma Dean Powell.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

EPemnmsiaonD.ean Powell. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma Dean Powell, widow of John Wesley Powell ,

late major, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month .

Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 390. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Ropes.

[Private, No. 339. ]
Sarah E. Ropes. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah E. Ropes, widow of James M. Ropes, late captain , Eighth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903. [Private, No. 340.]
Thomas Starrat. Pension increased.

CHAP. 391.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Starrat.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Starrat, late of Captain William Ross's company, and Lieutenant Cornelius Taylor's company, Florida Volunteers, Seminole Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

February 2, 1903.

CHAP. 392.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen J. Houston.

[Private, No. 341.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
SPteenspihoen Ji.ncHroeuassteodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Stephen J. Houston , late of Captain Hollman's com-

pany and Captain Arthur Burney's company , Florida Volunteers,

Seminole Indian war , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty

dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 2, 1903 .

February 2, 1903.
[Private, No. 342. ]
Orin T. Fall. Pension increased .

CHAP. 393. An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orin T. Fall.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 393-396 , 401. 1903.
laws, the name of Orin T. Fall, late of Company D, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 2 , 1903.

1581

CHAP. 394.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to David C. Morgan.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David C. Morgan, late of Company C, Second Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 2 , 1903 .

[ Private, No. 343. ]
David C. Morgan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 395. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bertha R. Koops.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate und House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bertha R. Koops, widow of Carl Koops, late first lieutenant, Tenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Carl Koops until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 2, 1903.

[Private , No. 344. ]
Bertha R. Koops. Pension increased.

CHAP. 396. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Ivey.

February 2, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Ivey, widow of Robert L. Ivey, late of Captain J. A. Newman's company, Georgia Volunteers, and Captain John C. Pelott's company, Florida Volunteers , Seminole Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 2, 1903 .

[ Private, No. 345. ]
Mary J. Ivey. Pension.

CHAP. 401. -An Act For the relief of F. M. Vowells.

February 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 346. ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That in auditing and settle-

F. M. Vowells. Pay and allowances

ment of the claims of F. M. Vowells as an officer in Company H, Sixth to .

Regiment of Kentucky Cavalry Volunteers, for his services he shall

be allowed and paid the pay and allowances of a second lieutenant of

said company from the first day of August, eighteen hundred and

sixty-three, to the fourteenth day of July , eighteen hundred and sixty-

five. less any amount paid him as such lieutenant.

Approved, February 3, 1903 .

1582

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 403-407. 1903.

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 403. --An Act To correct the military record of Henry M. Holmes.

[Private, No. 347.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

HGreannrtyedM.hHoonlomreabsl, e States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be,

discharge.

and he is hereby, authorized and directed to amend the records of the

War Department in the case of Henry M. Holmes , late of Company A,

First New Mexico Cavalry Volunteers, and issue to him an honorable

Proviso. No pay, etc.

discharge from said organization as of the date of July thirty- first,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage

of this Act.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 404. -An Act Granting an honorable discharge to Samuel Welch.

[Private, No. 348.]

Samuel Welch.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Granted honorable States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

discharge.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to correct the military

record of and grant an honorable discharge to Samuel Welch, late

Proviso. No pay, etc.

private, Company F, Third Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and now a resident of Delton, Wisconsin : Provided, That no pay or allowances

shall become due or payable by reason of the passage of this Act.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 405. -An Act Granting a pension to Caroline Fitzsimmons.

[Private, No. 349. ]

Caroline mons.
Pension.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Fitzsim- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline Fitzsimmons , widow of Paul J. Fitzsim-

mons, late of Company I, One hundred and sixty-fourth Regiment

New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of

solPdeinesriboen ltiovicnega. se if eight dollars per month, such pension, however, to cease and terminate upon proof that said soldier be still living.

Approved , February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 406. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Margaret A. Osborn.

[Private, No. 350. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
PMeanrsgiaornetinAc.rOeassbeodr.n. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Margaret A. Osborn, widow of Charles E. Osborn,

late of Company A, First Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry,

war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars

per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 351.]
William Dixon. Pension.

CHAP . 407. --An Act Granting a pension to William Dixon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 407-411 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of William Dixon, late a scout and guide, United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 4, 1903 .

1583

CHAP. 408.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry G. Wheeler.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry G. Wheeler, late of Company 1 , Forty- eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private , No. 352.]
Henry G. Wheeler. Pension increased.

CHAP. 409. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Sare.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Sare, late of Company I, Twenty - second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

[Private, No. 353.] John A. Sare. Pension increased.

CHAP. 410. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Absalom Case.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Absalom Case, late of Company F, Twenty-ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 354.]
Absalom Case. Pension increased.

CHAP. 411. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Messick.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James W. Messick, late of Company E, Second Regiment lowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 355. ]
James W. Messick. Pension increased.

1584

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 412-416. 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 356.]
James M. Blades. Pension increased.

CHAP. 412. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Blades.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Blades, late first lieutenant Company H, Sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4 , 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 357. ]
Andrew J. Reeves. Pension increased.

CHAP. 413. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew J. Reeves.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew J. Reeves, late of Company E, First Regi-

ment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 358. ]
John Kelley, 2d. Pension increased.

CHAP. 414. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Kelley, second.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Kelley, second, late of Company F, Sixth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 359. ]
David C. Yakey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 415. -An Act Granting an increase of pension David C. Yakey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David C. Yakey, late of Company A, Twenty-fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 360. ]
John Huffman. Pension increased.

CHAP . 416. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Huffman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Huffman , late of Company F, Nineteenth

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 416-420 . 1903 .
Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

1585

CHAP. 417.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Belk.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Belk, late of Company I , Sixteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1908. [Private, No. 361.]
William Belk. Pension increased.

CHAP. 418. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William S. Hutchinson . February 4, 1903.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 362. ] William S. Hutchin-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William S. Hutchinson, late second lieutenant Company D, Seventeenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 419. An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Covey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Covey, late of Company F, Fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 363. ]
John W. Covey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 420. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis M. McCoy.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis M. McCoy, late of Company H, Thirtyeighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.
VOL XXXII , PT 2-23

[Private, No. 364.] Francis M. McCoy. Pension increased.

1586

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 421-425. 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 365.]
John McArthur. Pension increased.

CHAP. 421. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John McArthur.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John McArthur, late colonel Twelfth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 366.]
JPoesnespihonWeinsctrberaosoekd ..

CHAP. 422. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Westbrook.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Westbrook, late of Company I, Forty- first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 367. ]
John D. Binford. Pension increased.

CHAP. 423. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John D. Binford.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John D. Binford, late of Company C, Second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 368. ]
Robert Stewart. Pension increased .

CHAP. 424.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert Stewart.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert Stewart, late of Company C , Forty-fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 369.]
JPoenhsniPo.n Pienctreeramsaend..

CHAP. 425. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John P. Peterman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 425-429. 1903 .
laws, the name of John P. Peterman, late of Company K, Fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

1587

CHAP. 426. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alice A. Fitch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice A. Fitch, widow of Ezra Fitch, late major, First Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 370. ]
Alice A. Fitch. Pension increased.

CHAP. 427.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Thomas.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Thomas, late of Company G, One hundred and thirtieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1908.
[Private, No. 371.1
Henry Thomas. Pension increased

CHAP. 428. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to J. Banks Hunter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of J. Banks Hunter, late of United States Signal Corps, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 372. ]
J. Banks Hunter. Pension increased.

CHAP. 429. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis Fishbaugh .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis Fishbaugh, late of Company E, Seventy- eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 373. ]
Lewis Fishbaugh. Pension increased.

1588

FIFTY SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 430-434 . 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 374. ]
Josiah S. Fay. Pension increased.

CHAP. 430. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Josiah S. Fay.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Josiah S. Fay, late acting third assistant engineer, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 431. -An Act Granting a pension to the minor children of Daniel J. Reedy.

[Private, No. 375.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

T.DRaneieedlyJ.. andAnnie States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the names of Daniel J. Reedy and Annie T. Reedy, minor children of Daniel J. Reedy , late chief machinist, United States Navy, and pay them jointly a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of said children peHneslipolnetsos cdoanutgihntueer'. s until they reach the age of sixteen years, from which date the pension of Annie T. Reedy , helpless and dependent child of said Daniel J. Reedy, shall continue at the rate of twelve dollars per month during the period of her helplessness.

Approved, February 4 , 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 376. ]
Henry J. Feltus. Pension increased.

CHAP. 432. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry J. Feltus.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Henry J. Feltus, late first lieutenant and adjutant Thirteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 377.]
Julia McCarthy. Pension.

CHAP. 433. -An Act Granting a pension to Julia McCarthy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia McCarthy, widow of Timothy McCarthy, late of Company G, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 378. ]
Dennis F. Andre. Pension increased.

CHAP. 434. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dennis F. Andre.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 434-438 . 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dennis F. Andre, late of Company F, Twentyseventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4 , 1903.

1589

CHAP. 435.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry M. Posey.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry M. Posey, late of Company B, Fourteenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 379.]
Henry M. Posey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 436.-- An Act Granting a pension to Cora E. Brown.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Cora E. Brown, helpless and dependent daughter of James S. Brown, late of Company F, Thirteenth Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

[Private, No. 380. ] Cora E. Brown.
Pension.

CHAP. 437. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Zickerick .

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Zickerick, late captain , Twelfth Battery Wisconsin Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 381. ]
William Zickerick. Pension increased.

CHAP. 438. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Horace Fountain.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Horace Fountain , late of Company K, Seventy- fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4 , 1903.

[ Private, No. 382. ]
Horace Fountain . Pension increased .

1590

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 439-443 . 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 383. ]
Sarah L. Bates. Pension.

CHAP. 439.- An Act Granting a pension to Sarah L. Bates.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah L. Bates , widow of Joseph J. Bates, late of Company C, First Battalion Massachusetts Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 384. ]
Milton Noakes. Pension increased.

CHAP. 440. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton Noakes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Milton Noakes , late of Company C , Thirty- eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 385.]
Otis T. Hooper. Pension increased.

CHAP. 441. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Otis T. Hooper.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Otis T. Hooper, late of Company E , Second Regiment

Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 386. ]
James N. Gates. Pension increased.

CHAP. 442. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James N. Gates.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James N. Gates, late of Company F, Thirteenth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 387. ]
Charles B. Greely. Pension increased.

CHAP. 443. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles B. Greely.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles B. Greely, iate of the United States steam-

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 443-447.
ships Ohio and Rhode Island, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4 , 1903.

1591

CHAP. 444. - An Act Granting a pension to William A. Nelson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. Nelson, late of Company A, Second Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 388.]
William A. Nelson. Pension .

CHAP. 445. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Spencer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Spencer, late principal musician Fiftyseventh Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 389. ]
JPaemnseisoMn.inScpreenacseerd..

Approved, February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 446. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Thompson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Thompson, late of Company C, Sixteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 390.]
George Thompson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 447. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram A. Hober.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram A. Hober, late of the Twelfth Independent Battery, New York Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension t the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now eceiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 391. ]
Hiram A. Hober. Pension increased.

1592

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 448-452 . 1903 .

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 392.]
Lewis E. Wilcox. Pension increased.

CHAP. 448. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis E. Wilcox.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis E. Wilcox, late principal musician, Twentyfirst Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and to pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 449. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. B. Huntsman.

[Private, No. 393.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

maJnoh. n W. B. Hunts- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John W. B. Huntsman , late of Company C, Ninth

Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 394.]
JPeesnsseioA.n iMnccIrnetaossehd..

CHAP. 450. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jesse A. McIntosh.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jesse A. McIntosh, late of Company B, First Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved , February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 451. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lyman A. L. Gilbert.

[Private, No. 395. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

LPeynmsaionnA.inLc.rGeialsbeedr.t. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lyman A. L. Gilbert, late of Company H, Seventh Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 396.]
Albert Blood. Pension increased.

CHAP . 452. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert Blood .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II . CHS. 452-456 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Albert Blood , late of Company H, Third Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

1593

CHAP. 453. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jessie R. Dewstoe.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jessie R. Dewstoe, widow of Gerritt S. Dewstoe , late of Company C, Sixth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving,
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[ Private, No. 397.]
Jessie R. Dewstoe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 454. --An Act Granting a pension to Harriet Robinson.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harriet Robinson, widow of George Robinson, late of Company C, One hundred and ninth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

[Private, No. 398. ]
Harriet Robinson. Pension.

CHAP. 455. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen N. Packard.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and is he hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen N. Packard , widow of John A. A. Packard,
late second lieutenant Company I, Fifth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[ Private , No. 399. ]
Helen N. Packard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 456. --An Act Granting a pension to John H. Whidden.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Whidden , late of Company A, Second Regiment Florida Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 4 , 1903.

[Private, No. 400. ] JPeonhsnioHn. . Whidden.

1594

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 457-461 . 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 401. ]
William H. Loyd. Pension increased.

CHAP. 457. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Loyd.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Loyd, late of Company A, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 402. ]
Regina F. Palmer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 458.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Regina F. Palmer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Regina F. Palmer, widow of Wilson P. Palmer, late captain Company G, Two hundred and tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 403. ]
berRse.becca L. Chain Pension .

CHAP. 459. -An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca L. Chambers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Rebecca L. Chambers , widow of William B. Cham-

bers, late of Company B , Sixth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 404. ]
Ann M. Morrison. Pension increased.

CHAP. 460. - An Act Granting an incrase of pension to Ann M. Morrison .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann M. Morrison , widow of William A. Morrison ,

late of Company K, First Regiment Alabama Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP . 461. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William R. Thompson.

[Private, No. 405. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

soWni. lliam R. Thomp States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 461-465 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William R. Thompson , late of Company B. Second Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

1595

CHAP. 462. -an Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel P. Marshall.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel P. Marshall, late of Company D, Eighth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 406. ]
Daniel P. Marshall. Pension increased.

CHAP. 463. -- An Act Granting a pension to Matilda A. Marshall.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws the name of Matilda A. Marshall, widow of D. Frank Marshall, late of Company K, Second Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 407.]
MatildaA. Marshall. Pension.

CHAP. 464. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Murphy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Murphy, late of Company C, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 408. ]
John Murphy. Pension increased.

CHAP. 465. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alonzo F. Canfield .

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alonzo F. Canfield , late of Company B, Second Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 409.] Alonzo F. Canfield. Pension increased .

1596

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 466-470. 1903.

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 410. ]
James T. Jackson. Pension.

CHAP. 466. - An Act Granting a pension to James T. Jackson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James T. Jackson, late of Company D , Thirty-sixth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 411.]
Alfred J. Sellers. Pension increased.

CHAP. 467. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alfred J. Sellers.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alfred J. Sellers, late major, Ninetieth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 412.] George H. Stone. Pension increased.

CHAP. 468. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Stone.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Stone , late of Company B, Sixteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 469. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew W. Miller.

[Private, No. 413.]
Andrew W. Miller. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew W. Miller, late of Company K, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-two dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 470. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Thompson.

[Private, No. 414.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

William Thompson . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Thompson , late cf Company D, Second

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS . 470-474 . 1903 .
Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

1597

CHAP. 471. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Heywood.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Heywood, late of Company I, Fifteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and Company G, Nineteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 415.] William Heywood. Pension increased .

CHAP. 472. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Josiah Stackpole.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Josiah Stackpole, late of Company K, Seventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private , No. 416. ]
Josiah Stackpole. Pension increased.

CHAP. 473.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Wright.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Wright, late of Company D, One hundred and twentieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

[Private, No. 417.]
John Wright. Pension increased.

CHAP. 474. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lester H. Salsbury.

February 4, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lester H. Salsbury , late of Company B, Fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 418. ]
Lester H. Salsbury. Pension increased.

1598

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 475-479.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 419.]
Jared P. Hubbard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 475. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jared P. Hubbard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jared P. Hubbard, late of Company B, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 476.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abner M. Judkins.

[Private, No. 420. ] APebnnseironM.inJcurdekaisends..

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abner M. Judkins, late of Eighth Battery Wiscon sin Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 421.]
Benjamin Cooper. Pension increased.

CHAP. 477. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Cooper.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Cooper, late of Company I, Second Regi-

ment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.
[Private, No. 422. ]
Rebecca R. Greer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 478. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rebecca R. Greer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca R. Greer, widow of Ailen Greer, late first

lieutenant Company A, Thirty-second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month
in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903.

CHAP. 479. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Loomis.

[Private, No. 423.] WPeinlsliioanm iFn.cLreoaosmeids. .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 479-481 , 488. 1903.
laws , the name of William F. Loomis , late of First and Second Batteries Vermont Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 4, 1903.

1599

CHAP. 480. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Morton A. Leach.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Morton A. Leach, late of Company I, First Regiment New York Veteran Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903 .

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 424.]
Morton A. Leach. Pension increased.

CHAP. 481. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Montgomery.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Montgomery, late second lieutenant Company C, Second Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 4, 1903.

February 4, 1903. [Private, No. 425. ] William Montgom . Pension increased .

CHAP. 488. -An Act For the relief of the First Baptist Church of Cartersville , February 5, 1903.

Georgia

[Private, No. 426.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the CaFritresrtsBvaipltlies,tGCah.urch, Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed , out of any Payment to. moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , to pay to the trustees or other legal representatives of said church, or their successors in office , in trust for the use and benefit of the First Baptist Church of Cartersville, Georgia, the sum of five thousand dollars, in full for all
the damages claimed by said church, or any person heretofore or hereafter claiming to represent said church, for brick and all other building materials taken and used by the Army of the United States during the late war; and the acceptance by said trustees of this sum shall be in full satisfaction of all claims of every name and nature for the said use or occupation of said church or the appropriation and use of the materials of the same, or in any manner arising or growing out of the use thereof.
Approved, February 5 , 1903.

1600

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 489-491 . 1903.

February 5, 1903.

CHAP. 489. -An Act For the relief of Elisha A. Goodwin , executor of the estate

[Private, No. 427. ] of Alexander W. Goodwin.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

DEulpilsihcaaAt.esGooofdwcienr.- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
tain registered bonds Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to issue duplito be issued to.
cates to Elisha A. Goodwin , executor of the estate of Alexander W.

Goodwin, late of Vanceboro , Maine, in lieu of United States four

per centum registered bonds, funded loan of nineteen hundred and

Vol . 16, p. 272. Vol. 16, p. 399.

seven, Acts of Congress approved July fourteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy , and January twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-

one, numbered seventy-one thousand and eleven to seventy-one thou-

sand and eighteen, inclusive, of the denomination of one hundred dollars each, amounting to eight hundred dollars, said bonds alleged to have been lost or stolen. Also to issue to the said Elisha A. Good-

win duplicates in lieu of United States four per centum coupon bonds of the funded loan of nineteen hundred and seven, Acts of Congress approved July fourteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy, and January twentieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, numbered one hundred and forty-eight thousand three hundred and fifty-six and one hundred and forty-eight thousand three hundred and fifty-seven of the denomination of one thousand dollars each; fifty- six thousand nine

hundred and sixty-one to fifty- six thousand nine hundred and sixtysix, inclusive, of the denomination of five hundred dollars each ; sixtysix thousand six hundred and eighty -one and sixty-six thousand eight

Proviso. Indemnity bonds.

hundred and twenty-nine, one hundred and sixty- eight thousand seven hundred and sixty- eight to one hundred and sixty- eight thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, inclusive, of the denomination of one hundred dollars, amounting to seven thousand two hundred dollars : Provided, That the said Elisha A. Goodwin shall first file in the Treasury a bond in a penal sum equal to the amount of the missing registered bonds and the interest that would accrue thereon until the

same shall become due or payable ; and a bond in a penal sum equal to double the amount of the missing coupon bonds and the interest that would accrue thereon until the same shall become due or payable, with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, with conditions to indemnify and save harmless the United States from any claim on account of the said lost or stolen bonds.

Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903.

CHAP. 490. --An Act For the relief of Paymaster James E. Tolfree, United States

[Private, No. 428. ] Navy.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United James E. Tolfree. Reimbursement of. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be, and he is hereby, directed to pay, out of any money in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , to James E. Tolfree, paymaster, United States Navy , the sum of four thousand dollars, said
sum to be a payment in full for all losses of both Government and personal property incurred by him by reason of the destruction by fire of the Windsor House, at Yokohama, Japan, on the morning of
February eighth, eighteen hundred and eighty- six .
Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903.
[Private, No. 429.]
Susan Kennedy. Pension.

CHAP. 491. - An Act Granting a pension to Susan Kennedy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 491-495. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Susan Kennedy, widow of Thomas Kennedy, late of Captain Beauchamp's company, Alabama Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903.

1601

CHAP. 492. -An Act Granting a pension to William L. Whetsell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William L. Whetsell , late of Company H, Second Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 5, 1903.

February 5, 1903. [Private, No. 430. ]
William L.Whetsell. Pension.

CHAP. 493. --An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth Lowden.

February 5, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Lowden, the former widow of Henry A. Lowden, late of Company G, Fifty-second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903.

[Private, No. 431. ] Elizabeth Lowden. Pension.

CHAP. 494. -An Act Granting a pension to Nancy A. Killough.

February 5, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

[Private, No. 432.]
Nancy A. Killough. Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Nancy A. Killough, widow of John H. Killough, late of Company D, Thirty-third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .

Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

CHAP. 495. --An Act Granting a pension to Maria M. C. Smith .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria M. C. Smith, widow of Charles H. Smith, late assistant surgeon, United States Army, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, February 5 , 1903. VOL XXXII , PT 2--24

February 5, 1903. [Private, No. 433.]
Maria M. C. Smith. Pension.

1602

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS . 496-500 . 1903.

February 5, 1903. [Private, No. 434. ]
Augustus Blount. Pension.

CHAP. 496. -- An Act Granting a pension to Augustus Blount.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augustus Blount, dependent father of Alfred Blount, late of Company C, Thirty- fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars. per month.
Approved, February 5, 1903 .

February 5, 1903. [Private, No. 435. ]
Julia Lee. Pension .

CHAP. 497. --An Act Granting a pension to Julia Lee.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia Lee, mother of George D. Lee, late of Company B, Eleventh Regiment United States Infantry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903.
[ Private, No. 436.]
Sarah A. Waltrip. Pension.

CHAP. 498. --An Act Granting a pension to Sarah A. Waltrip.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah A. Waltrip , widow of James E. Waltrip, late of Company K, One hundred and twenty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903.
[Private, No. 437.]
Nancy Works. Pension.

CHAP. 499. - An Act Granting a pension to Nancy Works.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy Works, widow of Preston Works, late of Company D, Eighteenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903.

CHAP. 500. -- An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Ann West.

[Private, No. 438. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

MPaenrsgiaorne.t Ann West. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension.

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 500-503. 1903.
laws, the name of Margaret Ann West, late nurse , Medical Department, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903.

1603

CHAP. 501. -An Act Granting a pension to John H. Roberts.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Roberts, late of Company B, Sixth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 5 , 1903 .

February 5, 1903. [Private, No. 439.]
John H. Roberts. Pension.

CHAP. 502. - An Act For the relief of William J. Smith and D. M. Wisdom.

February 6, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private, No. 440.]
States of America in Congress assembled, That William J. Smith and anWdilDl.iMa.mWJi.sdSommi. th D. M. Wisdom be, and they are hereby, released from all liability inci- Released from lia-
bility on bond of R. dent to the forfeiture and judgment upon a certain bond in the penal M. Thompson. sum of three thousand dollars with said William J. Smith and D. M. Wisdom as sureties , conditioned that R. M. Thompson appear the term of the United States circuit court for the western district of Ten-
nessee, begun on the fourth Monday in October, eighteen hundred and eighty- five.
Real estate ceded SEC. 2. That all the right, title, and interest which the United States back to William J
acquired from said William J. Smith by deed from the marshal of the smith. United States for the western district of Tennessee of date February twentieth, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, in and to the followingdescribed real estate : All the interest of William J. Smith in lot num-
bered one, in block numbered seventeen , of Butler's addition to the
city of Memphis, beginning on the corner of Echols and Elliott streets and running in a northerly direction along the west line of said Echols street ninety- three and one-half feet ; thence east to the west line of an alley, three hundred and fifty- two and one-half feet; thence south
along the west line of said alley to the north line of Calhoun street, one hundred and ninety - six feet ; thence west along the north line of said Calhoun street to the west line of said Elliott street, one hundred
and eighty-three feet, and thence in a northwesterly direction along the north line of said Elliott street to the beginning, two hundred and
six and one-fourth feet, be, and the same is hereby, divested from the United States , and all the said right , title , and interest be , and the same is hereby, vested in the said William J. Smith.
Approved, February 6 , 1903 .

CHAP. 503. -An Act For the relief of William D. Rutan.

February 6, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the proper accounting officers of the Treasury Department be, and they are hereby, authorized and directed to credit the accrunt of William D. Rutan , late
collector of internal revenue at New rk, New Jersey, with the sum of

[Private, No. 441. ] WCireldliitaimnDa.cRcuoutnatns. .

1604 Vol. 30, p. 451.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 503-506. 1903.
one thousand three hundred and fifty dollars, the same being the net value of certain snuff stamps forwarded by said Rutan to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for exchange under the provisions of an Act of Congress approved June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, which stamps were lost in transit, or otherwise , and never accounted for.
Approved , February 6 , 1903.

February 6, 1903.

CHAP. 504. -An Act For the relief of Frank J. Burrows.

[Private, No. 442. ]

Frank J. Burrows.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Credit in postal ac- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Postmaster-General

counts.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to cause the account of

Frank J. Burrows, late postmaster at Williamsport, State of Pennsylvania, to be credited with the sum of four thousand and twenty- two

dollars, and that he cause said credit to be certified to the Auditor of the Treasury for the Post-Office Department, being on account of loss

of three thousand five hundred dollars in postage stamps and five

hundred and twenty-two dollars in postal funds by robbery of said post-office on the thirtieth day of August , eighteen hundred and

Payment to.

eighty-four, it appearing that said loss was without fault or negligence on the part of said late postmaster. And the said sum of four thousand and twenty- two dollars is hereby appropriated, out of any

moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , to pay said claim .

Approved, February 6 , 1903 .

February 6, 1903.

CHAP. 505. -An Act For the relief of G. H. Sowder.

[Private, No. 443.]

B. H. Sowder.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

Payment to admin- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

istrator of.

Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay out

of the Treasury of the United States, of any money not otherwise ap-

propriated, to G. H. Sowder, of Pineville, Bell County, Kentucky,

administrator of the estate of B. H. Sowder, deceased, failing mail

contractor, the sum of five hundred and sixty-seven dollars and

seventy-seven cents, the amount due to the estate of B. H. Sowder,

as shown by the records of the Auditor's Office for the Post-Office

Department .

Approved, February 6 , 1903.

February 6, 1903. P[Prreiavmabtlee, N. o. 444. ]
H. Glafcke. Payment to.

CHAP. 506. -An Act For the relief of H. Glafcke.
Whereas H. Glafcke, a deputy collector of internal revenue for the district of Colorado during the fiscal year nineteen hundred, failed to receive balance due him on account of traveling expenses for that year; and
Whereas, while said claim is justly due and owing said H. Glafcke, it is now barred by the statute of limitations : Therefore,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , to H. Glafcke the sum of

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 506-509 . 1903 .
one hundred and ten dollars and thirty-nine cents, being the balance due for necessary traveling expenses as deputy collector of internal revenue for the district of Colorado for the fiscal year ended June thirtieth, nineteen hundred .
Approved, February 6, 1903 .

1605

CHAP. 507. --An Act For the relief of William Dugdale.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Postmaster-General be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to give credit to William Dugdale, postmaster at Noroton Heights, Connecticut, on his moneyorder account, for the sum of two thousand one hundred and two dollars and eighty-seven cents, being the balance now charged against him on account of certain money orders obtained by fraud in eighteen hundred and ninety - four by one Leroy Harris , who was afterwards arrested for said offense , convicted, and sent to the penitentiary.
Approved, February 6 , 1903.

February 6, 1903. [Private, No. 445.] WCirledliitaminDuagcdcaoluen.ts.

CHAP. 508. -An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca Piper.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca Piper, foster mother of Simpson Eaton, late of Company I , Eighteenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 6 , 1903 .

February 6, 1903.
[Private, No. 446.] Rebecca Piper. Pension.

CHAP. 509. -An Act For the relief of the heirs of Aaron Van Camp and Virginius February 6, 1903.

P. Chapin.

[Private, No. 447.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That the

claim

of Aaron Van

Aaron Van Camp and Virginius P.

Camp and Virginius P. Chapin against the United States (Congres- Chapin.

Claim ofheirs of, resional case numbered one thousand and forty-nine), the findings of ferred to Court of

fact in which were transmitted to the House of Representatives by Claims.

House Miscellaneous Document Numbered Eighty-one, Fifty- first

Congress, second session, is hereby referred to the Court of Claims , to hear and determine the question of the liability of the United States for the losses found by said court, in its said sixth finding of fact, with jurisdiction to hear and determine the same upon the principles of law and equity and in compliance with the rules and regulations of said court.

And in the event the said court shall be of the opinion that the United States are justly liable , under all the circumstances of the said case, for the losses and damages sustained by the said decedents by

Judgment .

reason of the acts of their officers in the premises, the said court shall render judgment in favor of the claimants for the amount found to be due by its sixth finding of fact in the said Congressional case numbered one thousand and forty -nine, as set forth in the report of the said court to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on January eighth ,

1606

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHs. 509-511. 1903.

LPiromviitsaotsi. on waived , eighteen hundred and ninety-one : Provided, That no statute of limita-

miTtetsetdi. mony to be ad- tions shall be pleaded in bar of the recovery of said claim: And provided further, That in determining the question of the liability of the United States the said court shall consider the testimony submitted to

it in the investigation of said Congressional case numbered one thousand and forty-nine, together with all affidavits and documents ; also

the reports of officers of the State and Treasury departments of the United States in the settlements of accounts of the officers of the United

States in connection with the said claim .

Payment of judg-

ment.

And furthermore, that if the judgment shall be rendered against the

United States for the amount found and fixed by said court in said

sixth finding of fact, to wit, the sum of sixty thousand one hundred

dollars, the same shall be paid, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated , to the legal representa-

tives of the said Aaron Van Camp, deceased, and the said Virginius P. Chapin, deceased, as their respective interests may appear, and the new action to be brought under the provisions of this Act shall be in the name of said legal representatives.

Approved, February 6 , 1903.

February 6 1903.

CHAP. 510.- An Act For the relief of M. L. Cobb, administrator of W. W. Cobb,

[Private, No. 448. ] deceased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Cobb. Payment to admin- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

istrator of.

Treasury be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to M. L.

Cobb, administrator of W. W. Cobb, deceased , the sum of one thou-

sand seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and forty-nine cents , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , the same being the amount of salary for the unexpired part of the current year in which the said W. W. Cobb, who was consul of the United States

at Colon, Colombia, departed this life.

Approved, February 6 , 1903 .

February 6, 1903.

CHAP. 511.-An Act For the relief of the heirs of Mary Clark and Francis or

[Private, No. 449.] Jenny Clark, deceased , and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Mary Clark Francis or

and States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Inte-

Clark.

Jenny rior is hereby authorized and directed to issue a patent in fee simple

lands to

Patentsfor lands of to the heirs of Mary Clark and Francis or Jenny Clark, deceased, late

prior ones.

of Oklahoma Territory, for the northwest quarter of section seventeen

in township thirteen north, of range eight west , of the Indian meridian,

in said Territory , and the northeast quarter of section twenty- six in township eleven north, of range eight west, of the Indian meridian, in

said Territory, said patent to issue in lieu of a patent issued to said Francis or Jenny Clark May twentieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

two, for said first-described tract, and a patent issued to said Mary Clark on the sixth day of May, eighteen hundred and ninety -two, for

Vol. 24, p. 388. Vol. 26, p. 1007. Taxation.

the last-described tract ; each of said patents being trust in their character and issued under the provisions of the Act of Congress approved February eighth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, as amended by the Act of March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, said allottees being members of the Cheyenne or Arapahoe tribe of Indians.
SEC. 2. That said lands when so patented shall be subject to taxa-

ation under the laws of the Territory of Oklahoma .

Approved, February 6, 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 519-522.

1607

CHAP. 519. --An Act Directing the issue of a check in lieu of a lost check drawn by Captain E. O. Fechet, disbursing officer United States Signal Service Corps, in favor of the Bishop Gutta Percha Company.

February 7, 1903. [Private, No. 450. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That Captain E. O. Fechet , CoBmisphaonpyG.utta Percha disbursing officer United States Signal Corps, be, and he is hereby, Duplicate check to. authorized and directed to issue to the Bishop Gutta Percha Company
a duplicate of an original check issued by said E. O. Fechet on the

twenty-ninth day of September, nineteen hundred , numbered thirty-

five thousand eight hundred and twenty - one, upon the assistant treasurer of the United States, at New York, in favor of the said Bishop

Gutta Percha Company, for the sum of two thousand seven hundred

and ninety-three dollars , which check is alleged to have been lost in

transmission through the clearing house before reaching the said assistant treasurer of the United States at New York: Provided, That said duplicate check shall be issued under such regulations in regard to its issue and payment as have been prescribed by the Secretary of

Proviso. Indemnity bond.

the Treasury for the issue of duplicate checks , under the provisions of section thirty-six hundred and forty-six of the Revised Statutes of the R. S., sec. 3646, p. 717.

United States, including an adequate bond of indemnity.

Approved, February 7, 1903.

CHAP. 520. -An Act For the relief of Colonel H. B. Freeman .

February 7, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That Colonel H. B. Freeman, Twenty- fourth United States Infantry, be, and is hereby, relieved from the obligation to refund the sum of one thousand seven hundred and sixty-one dollars and sixty cents, paid to him under a decision of the Acting Secretary of War as commutation of quarters while on duty as acting Indian agent, Osage Agency , Pawhuska, Oklahoma Territory, from the tenth day of December, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, both inclusive, which decision was overruled by the Comptroller of the Treasury, notwithstanding that the monthly claims which were based upon it had been approved by the auditing officers and paid, month by month, for upward of three years.
Approved, February 7, 1903.

[Private, No. 451. ] H. B. Freeman. Relief of.

CHAP. 521. - An Act For the relief of George P. White.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to release Captain George P. White, Ninth United States Cavalry, from all liability resulting from the loss of four thousand two hundred and ninety - nine dollars and seventy- six cents, the unrecovered balance of stolen quartermaster funds for which he was responsible , the said sum now being charged against him on the books of the Treasury Department.
Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

February 7, 1903.
[ Private, No. 452.] George P. White. Relief of.

CHAP. 522. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Hunter.

February 7, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Hunter, late of Captain Hardin's company, Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 453. ]
James Hunter. Pension increased.

1608

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 523-526, 534. 1903.

February 7, 1903.

CHAP. 523. -An Act For the relief of the estate of Leander C. McLelland,

[Private, No. 454.] deceased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United laLneda. nder C. McLel- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ofP. ayment to estate Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to the
estate of Leander C. McLelland , deceased , late of Cobb County, Georgia, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of five thousand five hundred dollars, being for cotton
taken by or furnished to the military forces of the United States for
hospital purposes during the late war for the suppression of the rebellion .

Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

February 7, 1903. [Private, No. 455.] CPaerntseironB.. Harrison.

CHAP. 524. --An Act Granting a pension to Carter B. Harrison.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Carter B. Harrison, late captain Company C , Fifty-

first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

February 7, 1903. [Private, No. 456.]

CHAP. 525. - An Act Granting to Nellie Ett Heen the south half of the northwest quarter and lot four of section two, and lot one of section three, in township one hundred and fifty-four north, of range one hundred and one west, in the State of North Dakota.

Nellie Ett Heen.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Land in North Da- States of America in Congress assembled, That the following-described

kota granted to.

land is hereby granted to Nellie Ett Heen , to wit : The south half of

the northwest quarter and lot four of section two, and lot one of section

three, in township one hundred and fifty- four north, of range one hun-

dred and one west, situate in the Minot United States land district , in the State of North Dakota.

Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

February 7, 1903.
[Private, No. 457.] Weden O'Neal. Pension increased.

CHAP. 526. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Weden O'Neal.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Weden O'Neal, late colonel Fifty-fifth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 7 , 1903 .

February 9, 1903.
[Private, No. 458. ]
L. A. Noyes. Payment to.

CHAP. 534. -- An Act For the relief of L. A. Noyes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That there be paid , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of one thousand eight hundred and nineteen dollars to L. A. Noyes, for services rendered as acting assistant Treasury agent at the island of Saint George, Alaska, from August first, eighteen hundred and eightysix, to May thirtieth, eighteen hundred and eighty - seven, inclusive.
Approved, February 9, 1903 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 535 , 536 , 540 , 541. 1903.

1609

CHAP. 535. -An Act For relief of the Christian Church of Henderson, Kentucky. February 9, 1903.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 459. ] Christian Church of
States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Henderson, Ky. Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to the Payment to. Christian Church of Henderson , Kentucky, the sum of five hundred dollars , for rental of said church while occupied by United States troops during the war of the rebellion .
Approved, February 9, 1903 .

CHAP. 536. -An Act For the relief of William P. Marshall.

February 9, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [ Private, No. 460. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the WPialylmieanmtP.oMfarbsohuanltly. Treasury be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to pay , out of to. any money not otherwise appropriated , the sum of two hundred dollars to William P. Marshall , late a private in Company H, One hundredth Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , being the amount due him for bounty.
Approved, February 9, 1903 .

CHAP. 540. -An Act For the relief of Henry G. Rogers.

February 10, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 461. ]

States of America in Congress assembled, That Henry G. Rogers , late

Henry G. Rogers. Military record cor-

first sergeant of Company B, Twenty- fourth Wisconsin Volunteer rected,

Infantry, shall be held and considered commissioned a second lieutenant

in said regiment from January second, eighteen hundred and sixtyfour, with rank from November twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and to have been discharged as such lieutenant January twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-four : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Approved, February 10, 1903.

CHAP. 541. -- An Act Directing the issue of a check in lieu of a lost check drawn by George A. Bartlett, disbursing clerk, in favor of Fannie T. Sayles, executrix, and others.
Whereas it appears that George A. Bartlett, disbursing clerk, Treasury Department, did, on the nineteenth of July, nineteen hundred and two, issue a check, numbered eight hundred and thirteen thousand five hundred and fifty-three, upon the Treasurer of the United States at Washington, District of Columbia, in favor of Fannie T. Sayles, executrix, and others , for the sum of three thousand seven hundred and eight dollars and thirty-three cents, being in payment
for rent of a building in Indianapolis, Indiana, for quarters for Government offices ; and said check was by the said Fannie T. Sayles ,
executrix, and others , indorsed for deposit in the Merchants' National Bank, Indianapolis, Indiana, and so deposited , which check was subsequently mailed by the Merchants' National Bank to its correspondent for collection, and was destroyed in a wreck on the Pennsylvania Limited on July twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred and two , in transmission through the United States mails ; and
Whereas the provisions of the Act of February sixteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty - five, amending section thirty-six hundred and forty-six, Revised Statutes of the United States, authorizing United States disbursing officers and agents to issue duplicates of lost checks, apply only to checks drawn for two thousand five hundred dollars or less: Therefore,

February 10, 1903. [Private, No. 462.] Preamble.
Vol. 23, p. 306. R.S. , sec. 3646 p.717.

1610

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CS. 541 , 541a , 549. 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United exFeacuntnriiex. T. Sayles, States of America in Congress assembled, That George A. Bartlett , dis-
Duplicate check to. bursing clerk of the Treasury Department, be, and is hereby, instructed to issue a duplicate of said original check , under such regulations in regard to its issue and payment as have been prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the issue of duplicate checks under the pro-
R. S. , sec. 3646, p. 717. visions of section thirty-six hundred and forty-six, Revised Statutes of the United States.
Approved, February 10, 1903 .

February 10, 1903. CHAP . 541a. -An Act For the relief of Clara H. Fulford.

[Private, No. 462a]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Clara H. Fulford . Redemption of States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
ibzuerdn.ed bonds author- Treasury be, and is hereby, instructed to redeem , in favor of Mrs. Clara H. Fulford, widow of D. Fulford, two bonds of the United

States, of the denominations of fifty dollars and fifty dollars , and known as five-twenties, said bonds having been destroyed by fire the ninth day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy- two, and to pay to Mrs. Clara H. Fulford , widow of said D. Fulford, the amount of said

Indemnity bond.

bonds, together with accrued interest from July first , eighteen hundred and seventy-two , to the date of the maturity of said bonds.
SEC. 2. That the said Mrs. Clara H. Fulford , widow of D. Fulford,

shall also execute and file with the Secretary of the Treasury a bond

with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, in the penalty of three hundred dollars, conditioned to save

harmless the United States from loss or liability on account of said bonds or the interest accrued thereon.

Approved, February 10, 1903 .

February 12, 1903. CHAP. 549. -An Act For the relief of William M. Bird, James F. Redding, [Private, No. 463. ] Henry F. Welch, and others.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

JaWmielsliaFm. MR.eddBiinrgd,, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

HeRnerliyefF.ofW,ealscshur, eettic.es Treasury be, and is hereby, authorized to examine into the circum-

on contract of D.A. J. stances of the performance and execution by William M. Bird , James Sullivan .

Ante, p. 1037.

F. Redding, Henry F. Welch, and others, as sureties of D. A. J. Sul-

livan, of the work in the construction of the new United States post-

office and court -house in Charleston , South Carolina , under the contract of the said D. A. J. Sullivan to construct the same, dated January

thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety, and ascertain what work was done thereunder, and whether for any reason the said parties who per-

formed said work are justly and equitably entitled to be reimbursed

the amount by them expended in performing said work over and above the original contract price ; and the said Secretary is authorized to take evidence to ascertain the facts in the case, notwithstanding the terms of the contract, and to determine the amount that should fairly and

Appropriation.

equitably be allowed said parties, and to pay such sum as he may determine shall be allowed, not to exceed, however, the sum of twenty-two thousand seven hundred and four dollars. And a sufficient amount of
money is hereby appropriated, out of the funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to pay the amount so found to be fairly and equitably due, not exceeding the sum of twenty-two thousand seven hundred and four dollars.

Approved, February 12 , 1903.

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 550, 551 , 556 , 557. 1903. 1611

CHAP. 550. --An Act For the relief of the legal representative of Major William February 12, 1903.

Kendall.

[Private, No. 464. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United William Kendall.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the accounting officers Relief of the legal of the Treasury be, and they are hereby , authorized and directed to representative of.
settle the account of William Kendall, deceased, as a sutler at Fort
Columbus, New York Harbor, for articles furnished by him to soldiers

there recruited or stationed during the period from the first day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, to the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, inclusive.
SEC. 2. That in all cases where the several amounts claimed were

Claims.

regularly entered on the original muster of descriptive rolls which accompanied the detachments from said fort, and where thus charged

against the respective soldiers but were not transferred to the company rolls nor retained out of the soldier's pay and allowed to said William Kendall, deceased, the said amounts, not to exceed, exclusive of interest, two thousand dollars , shall be allowed and paid to the legal representative of said William Kendall, deceased , out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.

Limit.

Approved, February 12 , 1903.

CHAP. 551. -An Act For the relief of William E. Anderson.

February 12, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 465. ]

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of War William son.

E.

Ander-

be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to so amend the military Granted honorable

record of William E. Anderson , Company H, Third United States discharge.

Artillery, as to show him honorably discharged to date June eighteenth ,

eighteen hundred and forty -seven: Provided, That no pay, bounty, or Proviso. other emoluments shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage No pay, etc.

of this Act.

Approved, February 12, 1903.

CHAP. 556. -An Act For the relief of Edward S. Crill.

February 16, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to pay to Edward S. Crill, of Florida, the sum of one hundred and seventy- five dollars , for rent of building for post-office in Palatka , Florida , for the third and fourth quarters of the year eighteen hundred and eighty- six.
Approved, February 16, 1903.

[Private, No. 466.]
Edward S. Crill. Payment to.

CHAP. 557.-An Act For the relief of Lebbeus H. Rogers and the administrators February 16, 1903.

of William B. Moses, deceased.

[Private, No. 467. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Lebbeus H. Rogers,
States of America in Congress assembled, That Lebbeus H. Rogers and and administrators of the administrators of William B. Moses, deceased, are hereby author- WiSleltitalmemBe.nMtosoefs. liaized , within thirty days after the passage of this Act, to pay into the bility on bond of
Treasury of the United States twelve thousand dollars, being the prin- Henry W. Howgate.
cipal sum named in the official bond of Henry W. Howgate upon which
said William B. Moses, deceased , and said Rogers were sureties , and

1612

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 557-559. 1903.

such payment, together with court costs in the suits against them, shall be received in full satisfaction and discharge of all obligations whatsoever of said parties to the United States thereunder, and in full sat-

isfaction and discharge of all judgments entered against said Rogers

or said administrators in favor of the United States upon the said bond,

and the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed, upon

receiving such payment, to satisfy said judgments, and each of them,

Proviso.

LiabilityofHowgate of record: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall be

not affected.

construed as affecting in any manner the liability of said Howgate or

his legal representatives to the United States on said bond or otherwise.

Approved, February 16, 1903 .

February 17, 1903. CHAP. 558. -An Act For the relief of the Florida Brewing Company.

[Private, No. 468.]

Florida

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Company. Brewing States of America in Congress assembled, That the Commissioner of

Relief of.

Internal Revenue be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to

reopen and reconsider the claim of the Florida Brewing Company, of

Tampa, Florida, for the refunding of three hundred and twenty - six

dollars and fifty- two cents, amount paid for stamps purchased from the Collector of Internal Revenue at Jacksonville, Florida , and affixed

to beer exported to Cuba during December, eighteen hundred and

ninety-eight, and January and February, eighteen hundred and ninety-

nine; and if, upon reopening and reconsidering said claim, said Commissioner shall find said stamps, or any part of the same, to have been

affixed to packages of beer actually exported to Cuba, it is hereby

made his duty to ascertain the amount paid for stamps so affixed and to

allow the claim for such amount ; and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized and required to pay, out of any money in the

Treasury not otherwise appropriated , the said sum of three hundred

and twenty-six dollars and fifty- two cents, or so much thereof as may

be found by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to have been paid

for stamps affixed to beer exported to Cuba.

Approved, February 17, 1903.

February 17, 1903. CHAP. 559.- An Act To refer the claim of Joseph W. Parish to the Secretary of [Private, No. 469. ] the Treasury for examination and payment of any balance found due.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Joseph W. Parish. Clain of, to be ex-

States of America in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary of the

oafmtihneedTrebaysuSreyc.retary Treasury is hereby authorized and directed to make full and complete examination into the claim of Joseph W. Parish against the United

States for balance alleged to be due him by virtue of a contract made

by J. W. Parish and Company with Henry Johnson , a medical store-

keeper, acting on behalf of the United States , which contract bears

date March fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, and provides that

said J. W. Parish and Company should furnish to the United States

for the use of the Medical Department of the Army the whole amount

of ice required to be consumed at Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee ;

Saint Louis , Missouri, and Cairo , Illinois, during the remainder of the

said year eighteen hundred and sixty-three ; that the Secretary shall

determine and ascertain the full amount which should have been paid

said J. W. Parish and Company if the said contract had been carried

out in full, without change or default made by either of the parties

thereto , under the rule of the measure of damages laid down by the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of the United States

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 559, 570-572 . 1903.

1613

against Behan (One hundred and tenth United States Reports, page three hundred and thirty- eight), and in accordance with the evidence in the case collected by the United States Court of Claims , and after determining the full amount thus due said J. W. Parish and Company, under the said contract and rule of law aforesaid , to deduct therefrom
all payments which have been made to said J. W. Parish and Company, or to said Joseph W. Parish, whether in pursuance of judgments of the court or direct appropriation by Congress, or otherwise, stating what balance, if any, is due under the rule and evidence prescribed herein, and pay the said balance to said Joseph W. Parish, the present owner of said claim ; and sufficient money to pay such balance is hereby amAopuprnotprfioautnidondue.for appropriated out of any money in the Treasury which has not been otherwise appropriated.
Approved , February 17, 1903.

CHAP. 570.- An Act For the relief of the estate of M. J. Grealish, deceased.

February 18, 1903.

[ Private, No. 470.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

M. J. Grealish. Payment to estate

Treasury be, and he hereby is , directed to pay , out of any moneys in of.

the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , to the estate of M. J. Grea-

lish, deceased, late a captain in the United States Army, the sum of

seven hundred and sixty- six dollars and sixty-four cents, balance

remaining due for service rendered by said Captain Grealish as assist-

ant commissary of subsistence from July fifteenth , eighteen hundred

and seventy, to March twentieth , eighteen hundred and seventy -eight.

Approved , February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 571. -An Act To remove the charge of desertion from the military record February 18, 1903.

of Charles F. Woodford and grant him an honorable discharge.

[ Private, No. 471.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War foCrhda. rles F. Woodbe, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to amend the military Honorable discharge

record of Charles F. Woodford, late a private of Company I, One granted.

hundred and first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, so as to remove the charge of desertion and grant him an honorable discharge as of date May first, eighteen hundred and sixty-two : Provided, That no pay, bounty, or other emoluments shall become due or payable by

Proviso. No pay, etc.

virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

CHAP. 572. -An Act For the relief of the Propeller Tow Boat Company, of February 18, 1903.

Savannah .

[Private, No. 472.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the CoPrmoppaenllye,rSTaovwanBnoaaht, Treasury shall pay to the Propeller Tow Boat Company , of Savannah , GaP. ayment to. the sum of two thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine dollars and Ante, p. 1037 . forty-five cents, for the damage done the steam tugboat Cynthia, belonging to the said company, by the transport ship Chester, belonging to the United States, in the Savannah River on the thirtieth day of
November, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, for which the United States is liable.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

1614

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 573-577 . 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 573. -- An Act To correct the military record of Thomas J. Morman.

[Private, No. 473. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

TMihloimtaarsyJr.eMcoorrdmcaonr-. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

rected .

be, and is hereby, authorized to correct the military record of Thomas

J. Morman, captain E. R. Goulding's company, Calhoun's Mounted Battalion Georgia Volunteers, Mexican war, and grant him an honorable discharge, as of the date of June first, eighteen hundred and

forty -eight.

Approved , February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 474.]

CHAP. 574. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Heinzman .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United GPenosrigoen Hienicrnezamsaedn.. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of George Heinzman, late captain Company B, Eighty-

second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 475.]
Frederick Hart. Pension increased.

CHAP. 575. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Hart.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick Hart, late of Company C, Twenty-second

Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 ,

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 476. ]
Laura Levenseler. Pension.

CHAP. 576. -An Act Granting a pension to Laura Levenseler.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Laura Levenseler , the dependent and helpless daughter of Henry Levenseler, late of Company A, Twenty -second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 477.]
Isaac F. Russell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 577. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac F. Russell .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 577-581 . 1903.
laws, the name of Isaac F. Russell, late of Company H, Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars a month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1615

CHAP. 578. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bridget Agnes Tridel. February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 478. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Bridget Agnes Tri
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the del. Interior be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bridget Agnes Tridel, widow of John T. Tridel ,
late of Company B, First Regiment Virginia Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 579. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Asa Tarbox.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited [Private, No. 479. ] Asa Tarbox.
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Asa Tarbox, late of Company F, Eleventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the
rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

CHAP. 580. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Smith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Smith, late of Company G, Fourth Regiment Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 480. ]
John A. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 581. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Susan E. Duncan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Susan E. Duncan, widow of Alender P. Duncan, late lieutenant-colonel Fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 481. ]
Susan E. Duncan. Pension increased.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

1616

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 582-586. 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 482.]
George W. Brill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 582.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. Brill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Brill, late of Company F, Twenty - sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 583. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick W. Damon. [Private, No. 483.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United moFnre.derick W. Da- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick W. Damon, late of Company G , Thirty-
first Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 584. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram S. Thompson.
[Private, No. 484. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
HPienrsaimoSn.iTnhcoremapsseodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram S. Thompson, late of Company F, Thirteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 585. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter Tuper.

[Private, No. 485.]
Peter Tuper. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Tuper, late of First Battery Minnesota Volun-

teer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 486. ]
James Billingsley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 586. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Billingsley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 586-590 . 1903.
laws , the name of James Billingsley , late of Company B, First Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving. 
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

1617

CHAP. 587. - An Act Granting a pension to John Sullivan.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Sullivan , late assistant surgeon Thirteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

[Private, No. 487.]
John Sullivan. Pension.

CHAP. 588. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Stanley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Stanley, late of Company D, One hundred and fifty- first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 488. ]
John M. Stanley. Pension increased

CHAP. 589. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Grace A. Negley.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Grace A. Negley, widow of James S. Negley, late major-general, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventy-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

[Private, No. 489. ]
Grace A. Negley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 590. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ozro F. Cheney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ozro F. Cheney, late of Company K, First Regiment Vermont Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903 . VOL XXXII , PT 2-25

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 490.]
Ozro F. Cheney. Pension increased.

1618

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 591-595. 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 491.]

CHAP. 591.-- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph A. Buckholz.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

JPoesnespihonA.inBcurcekahsoedlz. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Joseph A. Buckholz, late of Company I, One hundred and eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and Troop M, Second Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 592.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Erastus E. Edmunds.

[Private, No. 492. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Erastus E. Ed

munds.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Erastus E. Edmunds , late of Company H, Fifty-

first Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 593. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas B. Wilson.

[Private, No. 493.] PTehnosmiaosn iB.ncWrielasseodn..

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas B. Wilson, late of Company H, Twenty-

fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and D. Varner's Battalion Ohio and Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 494. ]
Julia A. Cook. Pension increased.

CHAP. 594.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia A. Cook.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia A. Cook, widow of Enos Cook, late of Company I , One hundred and forty-third Regiment New York Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 495.]
Gottlieb Kafer. Pension increased.

CHAP . 595. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gottlieb Kafer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interier be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 595-599.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gottlieb Kafer, late of Company M, Fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1619

CHAP. 596.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Ehmke.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Ehmke, late of Company K, Ninth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 496.]
Henry Ehmke. Pension increased.

CHAP. 597. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar Brewster.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oscar Brewster, late of Company G, Fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 497. ]
Oscar Brewster. Pension increased.

CHAP. 598. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Parfitt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Thomas Parfitt, late of Company C, Fifty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 498.]
Thomas Parfitt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 599. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Contal.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Contal, late of Company K, Sixth Regiment United States Infantry, and captain of Company F , Ninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 499.]
Benjamin Contal. Pension increased.

1620

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 600-604. 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[ Private, No. 500. ]
John G. Nowman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 600. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John G. Nowman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John G. Nowman , late of Company H, Twelfth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 501. ]
Thomas Sherry. Pension increased.

CHAP. 601. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Sherry.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Sherry, late of Company K, Fourth Regi-

ment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 502. ]
Cyrus V. Gorrell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 602. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cyrus V. Gorrell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cyrus V. Gorrell, late of Company K, Seventy-fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.

CHAP. 603. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Reuben F. Carter.

[Private, No. 503.]
Reuben F. Carter. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Reuben F. Carter, late of Company H, Fifth Regi-

ment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and Company G, Second Regiment United States Volunteer Sharpshooters , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 504. ]
Michael Rader. Pension increased.

CHAP. 604. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Rader.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 604-608 . 1903.
laws, the name of Michael Rader, late captain Company F, Fortysixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

1621

CHAP. 605. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abel Fleming.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abel Fleming, late of Company B, Fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 505. ]
Abel Fleming. Pension increased.

CHAP. 606. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ira L. Evans.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ira L. Evans, late captain Company A, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Sharpshooters, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 506. ]
Ira L. Evans. Pension increased.

CHAP. 607. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Aurelia M. Power.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aurelia M. Power, widow of Benjamin F. Power, late first lieutenant Company C, One hundred and twenty-second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Benjamin F. Power until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 507.]
Aurelia M. Power. Pension increased .

CHAP. 608. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennie H. Cramer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie H. Cramer , widow of David Cramer, late of Company D, Forty- ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 508.]
Jennie H. Cramer. Pension increased.

1622

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 609-613 . 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 509. ]
John R. Curry. Pension increased.

CHAP. 609. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John R. Curry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John R. Curry, late of Company D, One hundred and eighty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 510.]
Peter Johnson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 610. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter Johnson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Johnson, late of Company M, Fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 511.]
Scott Case. Pension increased.

CHAP. 611. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Scott Case.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Scott Case, late of Company C , Eleventh Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 512. ]
Sarah E. Yemans. Pension increased.

CHAP. 612.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Yemans.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah E. Yemans, widow of Charles C. Yemans, late second lieutenant Company D, Twenty -fourth Regiment Michigan

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 513. ]
Mary Williams, Pension increased.

CHAP. 613. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Williams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 613-617. 1903 .
laws , the name of Mary Williams, widow of Francis C. Williams , late of Company H , Ninth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

1623

CHAP. 614. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Moses Whitcomb.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Moses Whitcomb, late of Company E, One hundredth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 514. ]
Moses Whitcomb. Pension increased.

CHAP. 615. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Aaron Young.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Aaron Young, late of Company D, Twenty - fourth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

[ Private, No. 515. ]
Aaron Young. Pension increased.

CHAP. 616. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin H. Downing. February 18, 1903.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No. 516.] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the inBge. njamin H. DownInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin H. Downing, late first lieutenant Company E, Forty-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

CHAP. 617. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. M. Seitz.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. M. Seitz , late Second Lieutenant Company B, Sixty-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

[ Private , No. 517. ]
John A. M. Seitz. Pension increased .

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

1624

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 618-622. 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 518.]
John S. Campbell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 618. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Campbell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Campbell, late of Company G, Twelfth

Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 519. ]
Lewis Walton. Pension .

CHAP. 619. -An Act Granting a pension to Lewis Walton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis Walton , late corporal, ordnance detachment, United States Army.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 520. ]
Julia Anglada. Pension increased.

CHAP. 620. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia Anglada.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia Anglada , widow of John Anglada , late of United States ship Constitution , United States Navy, and pay her a

pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 521. ]
Inez L. Clift. Pension increased.

CHAP. 621. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Inez L. Clift.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Inez L. Clift, widow of William J. Clift, late Lieutenant-Colonel, Fifth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 522. ]
Abel Woods. Pension increased.

CHAP. 622. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abel Woods.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 622-626. 1903.
laws, the name of Abel Woods , late of Company E, Tenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1625

CHAP. 623. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Lowe.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Lowe, late of Company L, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private , No. 523. ]
William Lowe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 624. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane A. Tillinghast.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane A. Tillinghast, widow of Albert G. Tillinghast, late first lieutenant Companies A and H, Fourth Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

[Private , No. 524.]
Jane A. Tillinghast. Pension increased.

CHAP. 625.---An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Nichols .

February 18, 1903.

[Private, No. 525. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the MPeanrsyioNnicihnoclrse.ased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Nichols, widow of Richard Nichols , late of

Company F, Twenty-third Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month, and

two dollars per month additional on account of a minor child of said soldier until such child shall have arrived at the age of sixteen years : Provided, however, That in the case of the death of the helpless child ,

Proviso. Increase to cease on

Bennett R. Nichols, on whose account the pension of Mary Nichols is death of child . increased, the pension of said Mary Nichols shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of

said helpless child .

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

CHAP. 626. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elvira M. Cooper.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 526.] Elvira M. Cooper. Pension increased.

1626

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 626-630. 1903.
laws, the name of Elvira M. Cooper, widow of George E. Cooper, late major and surgeon, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 627. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah E. Smith.

[Private, No. 527. ]
Sarah E. Smith. Pension.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Sarah E. Smith, widow of Squire J. Smith , late of

liTvioncge. ase if soldier is Company A, First Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, such pension to

cease upon proof that the soldier is still living.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 528.]
Thomas Martin. Pension.

CHAP. 628. --An Act Granting a pension to Thomas Martin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Martin, late of Company F, Third Regiment, United States Cavalry.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 629. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gustavus S. Perkins. [Private, No. 529. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United GPuensstiaovnusinS.crPeearskeidn.s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gustavus S. Perkins, late acting first assistant engineer, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 530. ]
HPeinrsaimonD.inDceremaisnedg.

CHAP. 630. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hiram D. Deming.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hiram D. Deming, late of Company G, Forty-fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18, 1903.

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 631-635 . 1903 .

1627

CHAP. 631. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ervin Thompson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ervin Thompson , late of Company E, Forty- first Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and Company D, Fiftieth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 531. ]
Ervin Thompson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 632. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nimrod F. Clark.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nimrod F. Clark, late of Company B, One hundred and thirty-third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 532.]
Nimrod F. Clark. Pension increased.

CHAP. 633. - An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth A. Wilder.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth A. Wilder, widow of Titus Wilder, late armorer, United States Navy, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

[Private, No. 533. ]
Elizabeth A.Wilder. Pension.

CHAP. 634. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Clement.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Clement, late of Company E, Twelfth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and to pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 534. ]
James M. Clement. Pension increased.

CHAP. 635. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Evans.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

[ Private, No. 535. ] James Evans. Pension increased.

1628

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 635-639. 1903.
laws, the name of James Evans, late of Company D, Fifth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 536. ]
Henry C. Trout. Pension increased .

CHAP. 636. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry C. Trout.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry C. Trout, late of Company G, Eleventh Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 537.]

CHAP. 637. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Francis N. Bonneau.

Francis N.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

neau.

Bon- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Francis N. Bonneau, late commander's clerk,United

States Navy , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 638. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles K. Cameron. [Private, No. 538. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PCheanrslieosnKi.nCcaremaesreodn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles K. Cameron, late of Company I, One hundred and sixty - first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 539.]
Dennis Cosier. Pension increased .

CHAP. 639. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Dennis Cosier.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Dennis Cosier, late of Company K, First Regiment

Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 18 , 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 640-643. 1903.

1629

CHAP. 640. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah A. Leepard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 540. ]
Sarah A. Leepard. Pension increased.

laws, the name of Sarah A. Leepard, widow of Joseph Leepard, late of Company D, One hundred and twenty-seventh, and Company D, Two hundred and second regiments Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu Proviso.
of that she is now receiving : Provided, however, That in the event of Increase to cease on
the death of the helpless child, Letitia M. Leepard, on whose account death of child.

the pension of Sarah A. Leepard is increased, the pension of said Sarah A. Leepard shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 641. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Augusta W. Seely.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augusta W. Seely, widow of Henry B. Seely, late lieutenant-commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving , and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Henry B. Seely until she reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903 .
[Private, No. 541. ]
Augusta W. Seely. Pension increased.

CHAP. 642. -An Act Granting a pension to John B. Anderson.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John B. Anderson, late courier, Colonel A. W. Doniphan's Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 542. ]
John B. Anderson. Pension.

CHAP. 643. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hugh J. Reynolds.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hugh J. Reynolds, late of Company G, Palmetto Regiment South Carolina Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

February 18, 1903 .
[Private, No. 543.]
Hugh J. Reynolds. Pension increased.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

1630

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 644-648 . 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 544.]
Fletcher Duling. Pension.

CHAP. 644. - An Act Granting a pension to Fletcher Duling.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fletcher Duling, late of Company D , Thirty-third Regiment, United States Infantry.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 545.]
Samuel Burrell, Pension increased .

CHAP. 645. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel Burrell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel Burrell, late first lieutenant Company M, Fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 546. ] RPeonbseirotnHi.ncMraeraiscelde..

CHAP. 646. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert H. Maricle.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert H. Maricle, late of Company D, Fortieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiv ing .

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 647. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Graham McClosson. [Private, No. 547. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United GPernashiaomn iMnccCrleoasssedon. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Graham McClosson , late of Company A, One hundred and tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 548. ]
Edward Walsh. Pension increased .

CHAP. 648. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward Walsh .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 648-652 . 1903 .
laws, the name Edward Walsh, late of Company A, Battalion Nineteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 18 , 1903 .

1631

CHAP. 649. -- An Act Granting a pension to May E. Bunn.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of May E. Bunn , widow of George B. Bunn, late major and brigade surgeon , United States Volunteers, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

[ Private, No. 549. ]
May E. Bunn. Pension.

CHAP. 650. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Asa C. Hill.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Asa C. Hill , late of Company D, Bell's Regiment Texas Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

[Private, No. 550. ] Asa C. Hill. Pension increased .

CHAP. 651. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John T. Knoop.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John T. Knoop, late of Company I, Forty- second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 551. ]
John T. Knoop. Pension increased.

CHAP. 652. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Brobst.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Brobst, late of Company G, One hundred and first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 552. ]
David Brobst. Pension increased.

1632

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 653-657. 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 653. --An Act Granting a pension to Almedia J. Robison. [Private, No. 553.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United APelnmseidoina. J. Robison. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Almedia J. Robison , widow of Marion S. Robison, late second lieutenant Company H, Eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 554. ]
Herman J. Miller. Pension.

CHAP. 654. -An Act Granting a pension to Herman J. Miller.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Herman J. Miller, late of Company L, Eleventh Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 555.]
Phillip Mooney. Pension increased.

CHAP. 655.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Phillip Mooney.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Phillip Mooney , late of Company D, First eorgia Regiment Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 556. ]
Leonard S. Grove. Pension increased.

CHAP. 656. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leonard S. Grove.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Leonard S. Grove, late of Company E, Eighth Regi-

ment Maryland Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 557. ]
Herman Tuerck. Pension increased.

CHAP. 657.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Herman Tuerck.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 657-660. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Herman Tuerck, late second lieutenant Company E, Twelfth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of one hundred dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1633

CHAP. 658. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Shovar.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick Shovar, late of Company I , One hundred and seventy- seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 558. ]
Frederick Shovar. Pension increased.

CHAP. 659. -- An Act Granting a pension to James H. Powell .

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. Powell , late of Company A, Eleventh, and Company K, Tenth Regiments Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month and such higher rate of pension as he may hereafter be entitled to under existing laws, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

[Private, No. 559.] James H. Powell. Pension.

CHAP. 660. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Rosenbarger. February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 560. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Elizabeth Rosen-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the barger. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Rosenbarger, widow of Philip Rosen-
barger, late of Company A, Eighty- first Regiment Indiana Volunteer
Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per Proviso. month in lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, however, That Increase to cease on in the case of the death of the helpless child, William Rosenbarger, on death of child. whose account the pension of Elizabeth Rosenbarger is increased, the
pension of said Elizabeth Rosenbarger shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and after the date of death of said
helpless child.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -26

1634

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 661-665 . 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 561. ]
John Snodgrass. Pension increased.

CHAP. 661. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Snodgrass.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Snodgrass, late captain Company F, One hundred and thirty- ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 562, ]

CHAP. 662. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Claybourn.

James Claybourn.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pension increased . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James Claybourn, late of Company E, Twenty-fifth

Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 563.] JPaenmseisonP.iCncarmepabseeldl. .

CHAP. 663. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James P. Campbell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James P. Campbell, late of Company D, Twentyninth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 564.]
Sarah A. Gerry. Pension increased.

CHAP. 664. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah A. Gerry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah A. Gerry, widow of Madison Gerry, late of Company C, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP . 665. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas E. Peabody.
[Private, No. 565. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
TPehnosmiaosn Ei.ncPreeaabsoeddy. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 665-669. 1903.
laws, the name of Thomas E. Peabody , late of Company A , First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

1635

CHAP. 666. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane P. Chester.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane P. Chester, widow of George F. Chester, late colonel One hundred and first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

[Private, No. 566. ] Jane P. Chester. Pension increased.

CHAP. 667. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Chamberlin. February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 567. ]

States

of

America

in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary of

the William berlin.

H.

Cham-

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William H. Chamberlin , late of Company K, First

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 668. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Winthrop W. Wolcott. February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 568. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the coWtit.nthrop W. WolInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Winthrop W. Wolcott, late of Company E, Sixteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving. Approved, February 18, 1903.

CHAP. 669. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Macfarlane.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Macfarlane, late of the United States steamships Vermont , New Hampshire, Philadelphia, and Para , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

[ Private, No. 569.]
John Macfarlane. Pension increased.

1636

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 670-674. 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 670. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Solomon S. Shaner. [Private, No. 570. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United SPeonlsoimoonniSn.crSehaasneder. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Solomon S. Shaner, late of Company D , Third Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 671. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Cardwell. [Private, No. 571. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United BPeennsjiaomniinnCcarredawseedll. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Cardwell, late of Company K, First Regiment Alabama Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension
at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 672. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Marshall.

[Private, No. 572. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

JPaenmseisonM.inMcarresahseadll. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James M. Marshall, late of Company A, One hun-

dred and fourteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him

a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 673. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph R. Prentice. [Private, No. 573. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United JPoesnespihonRi.ncPreansteidce. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph R. Prentice, late of Company C, Nineteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 574.]
Delitha A. Cook. Pension increased .

CHAP. 674. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Delitha A. Cook.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Delitha A. Cook , widow of Zoroaster Selman Cook,

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 674-678 . 1903 .
late a sergeant of Company B , Seibel's battalion, Alabama Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

1637

CHAP. 675. --An Act Granting a pension to Bessie Ledyard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bessie Ledyard, widow of John B. Ledyard, late of Company M, Fifth Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said John B. Ledyard until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1902.
[Private, No. 575.]
Bessie Ledyard. Pension.

CHAP. 676. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Luther Scott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Luther Scott , late of Company H, Fortieth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 576.]
Luther Scott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 677.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rudolph B. Weyeneth. February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 577.]
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Rudolph B. Weye-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the neth. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rudolph B. Weyeneth, late of Company F, Third Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery, and Company C,
Tenth Regiment Veteran Reserve Corps, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

CHAP. 678. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Da Silva.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Da Silva, late ordinary seaman, United States Navy, war with Mexico , and musician , Seventieth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 578. ]
John Da Silva. Pension increased,

1638

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 679-683 . 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 579. ]

CHAP. 679. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin Knestrict.

Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PBennsjiaomniinnKcnreesatsreidc.t. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin Knestrict, late of Company E, Fortyninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 580. ]
John Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 680. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Smith , late of Troop A, Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry, and Company G, One hundred and twenty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 681. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Chester W. Abbott.

[Private, No. 581. ]
Chester W. Abbott . Pension increased .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Chester W. Abbott, late of Company I , One hundred and third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903 .

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 682. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eli Titus.

[Private, No. 582. ]
Eli Titus. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eli Titus, late of Company C, One hundred and

thirty-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 583. ]
James A. Hale. Pension increased.

CHAP. 683. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James A. Hale.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 683-687 . 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Hale , late of Company B, Second Regiment California Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1639

CHAP. 684. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George N. McMurry.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George N. McMurry, late of Company G, Second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 584.]
GeorgeN. McMurry Pension increased.

CHAP. 685. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jane C. Welch.

February 18, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane C. Welch, widow of William W. Welch, late surgeon Fifty -third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

[ Private, No. 585. ]
Jane C. Welch. Pension increased .

CHAP. 686. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christian J. Flanagan. February 18, 1903.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private , No. 586.] Christian J. Flana-
States of America in Congress Assembled, That the Secretary of the gan. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christian J. Flanagan , late captain Company H, Thirty-fifth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

CHAP. 687.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Taylor.

February 18, 1903

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Taylor, late of Company D, Seventy - third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

[Private, No. 587. ]
Henry Taylor. Pension increased.

1640

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 688-692. 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 688. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry P. Reynolds. [Private, No. 588.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United PHeennsriyonP.inRceryenaosled.s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry P. Reynolds, late of Company G, One hundred and twenty- sixth Regiment, Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 589. ]
John Corbett. Pension.

CHAP. 689. --An Act Granting a pension to John Corbett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Corbett, helpless and dependent son of John Corbett, late of Company H, One hundred and eightieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 590. ]
Harry F. Libby. Pension increased.

CHAP. 690. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harry F. Libby.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harry F. Libby, late of Company A, Third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 591. ]
George W. Choate, Pension.

CHAP. 691. -- An Act Granting a pension to George W. Choate.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. Choate , late of Company M, Third Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903.
[Private, No. 592. ]
George Brown. Pension increased .

CHAP. 692. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Brown.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 692-696. 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Brown, late of Companies H and I, Fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1641

CHAP. 693. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia E. Jones.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized end directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia E. Jones, widow of James L. Jones , late second lieutenant Company C, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 593. ]
JPuelnisaiEo.n Jionncersea. sed.

CHAP. 694. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Annie W. Coit.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Annie W. Coit, widow of James B. Coit, late major Fourteenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 594. ]
Annie W. Coit. Pension increased.

CHAP. 695. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gustavus W. Peabody. February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 595.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Gustavus W. PeaStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the body. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gustavus W. Peabody, late of Company I, Tenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 696. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Enoch Dodd.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Enoch Dodd , late of Company H, Seventh Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 596.] .
Enoch Dodd. Pension increased .

1642

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. Cs . 697-701. 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 597.]
Michael Devine. Pension.

CHAP. 697. - An Act Granting a pension to Michael Devine.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Devine, late of Company A. Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month .
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 698. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin W. Walker. [Private, No. 598.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United PBeennsjiaomniinnWc.reWaaslekde. r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin W. Walker, late of Company B, First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 699. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Knepple. [Private, No. 599.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United WPienlsliioanm Hin.cKrneeapspelde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Knepple , late of Company B, One hundred and ninety - fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 600. ]
Wilson G. Gray. Pension increased.

CHAP. 700. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wilson G. Gray.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Wilson G. Gray, late of Company K, Third Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. CHAP. 701. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles S. Wainwright.
[Private, No. 601. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
Charles S. Wain- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the wright.
Pension increased. Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHs. 701-705 . 1903.
laws, the name of Charles S. Wainwright, late colonel First Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery and brevet brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 18, 1903.

1643

CHAP. 702. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Dinneen, now February 18 , 1903.

known as John J. Davidson.

[Private, No. 602. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United John J. Davidson, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the formerly John DinInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the nePeenn.sion increased. pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Dinneen, now known as John J. Davidson , late of Company G, Thirty-third Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

CHAP. 703. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James H. Durham.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James H. Durham, late of Twenty-second Battery Indiana Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18, 1903.

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 603. ]
James H. Durham. Pension increased.

CHAP. 704. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Mattingly.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Mattingly , late of Company D, Forty- sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903 .

February 18, 1903. [Private, No. 604. ]
James Mattingly, Pension increased.

CHAP. 705. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Palmer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Palmer, widow of Thomas J. Palmer, late of Company A, Second Regiment Missouri Mounted Infantry Volunteers , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 18 , 1903.

February 18, 1903 .
[Private, No. 605. ]
Elizabeth Palmer. Pension increased.

1644

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. Cs. 711-715 . 1903.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 606. ]
Susan Kent. Pension.

CHAP. 711.-An Act Granting a pension to Susan Kent.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension .laws, the name of Susan Kent, widow of John Kent, late of Captain
Daniel's company, Florida Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 19, 1903 .

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 607. ]

CHAP. 712. -An Act Granting a pension to Charles Maschmeyer.

Charles

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

meyer. Masch- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on

the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Maschmeyer, late of Captain Schwab's company Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 19, 1903 .

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 608. ]
Jane Hale. Pension.

CHAP. 713. -An Act Granting a pension to Jane Hale.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jane Hale, widow of Samuel Hale, late of Company M, Fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 19 , 1903 .

February 19, 1903. CHAP. 714.-An Act Granting a pension to Charles P. Bigelow. [Private , No. 609. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United CPheanrslieosn.P. Bigelow. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name Charles P. Bigelow, late acting assistant surgeon , United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 610. ]
Margaret Fox. Pension.

CHAP. 715. -An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Fox.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Margaret Fox, widow of Eli Fox , late of Company I,

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHs. 715-719 . 1903 .
One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

1645

CHAP. 716. --An Act Granting a pension to Washington T. Filson .

February 19, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [Private, No.611. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soWna. shington T. FilInterior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension. pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Washington T. Filson , late captain independent company, Caldwell County, Missouri, Home Guards, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 19, 1903.

CHAP. 717. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Homer Davis.

February 19, 1903.

Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Homer Davis, late of Company I , Second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension .
Approved, February 19, 1903.

[Private, No. 612.]
Homer Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 718. --An Act Granting a pension to Peter Buckley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter Buckley, late of Company E, Eleventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of ten dollars per month .
Approved, February 19, 1903 .

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 613. ]
Peter Buckley. Pension.

CHAP. 719. - An Act Forthe relief of the legal representatives of John L. Young. February 19 , 1903. [Private, No. 614. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United John L. Young. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Payment to legal Treasury be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to pay the legal representatives of. representatives of John L. Young, of Union , South Carolina, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of one thousand four hundred and seventy -one dollars and eighteen cents , being for services rendered the United States in carrying the mails in
eighteen hundred and sixty and eighteen hundred and sixty-one.
Approved, February 19 , 1903 .

1646

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 720-724.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 615. ]
Sabina Lalley. Pension.

CHAP. 720. -- An Act Granting a pension to Sabina Lalley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sabina Lalley, dependent mother of Patrick Lalley, late of Company B, Seventeenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 19 , 1903.

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 616. ] EPleinzsaiboent.h C. Gates.

CHAP. 721. --An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth C. Gates.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth C. Gates, widow of Jacob Gates, late of

Company G, Twenty- ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 19, 1903.

February 19, 1903. CHAP. 722. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ada S. Kaempfer.

[Private, No. 617. ]
Ada S. Kaempfer. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ada S. Kaempfer, widow of Samuel O. Kaempfer, late assistant surgeon , Two hundred and eighth Regiment Pennsylvania

prPoeonfsithoanttoofcfeiacseer oins Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars

living.

per month, such pension to cease upon proof that the officer is living.

Approved, February 19, 1903 .

February 19, 1903. CHAP. 723. -- An Act Granting a pension to William F. Randolph.

[Private, No. 618. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United William F. Ran- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

dolph.

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William F. Randolph, late pilot, United States Navy,

and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 19 , 1903.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 619.]
Martin Greeley. Pension.

CHAP. 724. -An Act Granting a pension to Martin Greeley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CS. 724-727 . 1903.
laws, the name of Martin Greeley , late of Company B, Ninth Regiment United States Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars a month.
Approved, February 19, 1903 .

1647

CHAP. 725. - An Act For the relief of Valdemar Poulsen.

February 19, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That letters patent of the

[Private, No. 620. ]
Valdemar Poulsen. Certain letters pat-

United States granted to Valdemar Poulsen , numbered six hundred ent issued to, not in-

and sixty-one thousand six hundred and nineteen, dated November valid.

thirteenth, nineteen hundred, shall not be held invalid by reason of

the lapse of more than seven months between the time of filing of his application for a patent in Denmark and the filing of his application for said United States patent ; nor shall the lapse of said period of more than seven months debar him from the grant of a patent upon

that portion of his invention which was divided out from his original
application in this country under the rules of practice then prevailing
in the Patent Office, but the patent which may be granted on said divi-
sional application shall expire at the same time with the said letters
patent numbered six hundred and sixty-one thousand six hundred and Proviso.
nineteen: Provided, That no person shall be held liable for any Nonliability for infringement of the patents herein referred to which may have prior infringement. occurred prior to the passage of this Act.

Approved, February 19, 1903 .

CHAP. 726. --An Act Granting a pension to William W. Painter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William W. Painter, late of Company K, Fortythird Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , February 19, 1903.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 621. ]
William W. Painter. Pension.

CHAP. 727. -An Act For the relief of Charles W. Carr.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of eighty- three dollars and seventy-one cents be allowed to Charles W. Carr , former postmaster at Englewood , Illinois , being the amount deposited by him to cover a deficiency arising in his office in the year eighteen hundred and ninety -four, which deposit was made to cover a loss caused by the payment by a clerk of two forged money orders, numbered eleven hundred and sixty-six and fifteen hundred and forty -three, issued at Lansing, Michigan, on April seventeenth and May sixth , eighteen hundred and ninety- four, respectively, without blame or fault on the part of said Charles W. Carr ; and that a sum sufficient to pay the allowance now made is hereby appropriated out of any money in the
Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated. Approved, February 19 , 1903 .

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 622. ]
CPhaayrmlenstW.toC. arr.

1648

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 728-732. 1903.

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 623.]
MPeanrsgiaorne,t Brennan.

CHAP. 728. -An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Brennan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Brennan , widow of Robert Brennan, late

of Captain Quinlan's Engineer Company, Sixty -ninth Regiment New York State Militia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the

rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 19 , 1903 .

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 624. ]
James T. Lundy. Pension.

CHAP. 729. --An Act Granting a pension to James T. Lundy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James T. Lundy, late of Company D, Second Regiment Florida Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 625.]
Mary P. Everton. Pension.

CHAP. 730. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary P. Everton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary P. Everton, widow of William Everton, late of Company L, Sixth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 626. ]
Mary J. Slusser. Pension.

CHAP. 731. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Slusser.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Slusser, widow of Albert Slusser, late of Company I , Seventy - sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903 .

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 627. ]
Delania Preston. Pension.

CHAP. 732. -An Act Granting a pension to Delania Preston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 732-736. 1903 .
laws, the name of Delania Preston , widow of William G. Preston, late of Captain Wilson's company, Georgia Volunteer Infantry , Florida Indian War, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 19 , 1903.

1649

CHAP. 733. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Hinkle.

February 19, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Hinkle, widow of Aaron H. Hinkle , late of Company I, One hundred and ninety -ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

[Private, No. 628. ]
Mary A. Hinkle. Pension .

CHAP. 734. - An Act Granting a pension to Charles W. Bracken.

February 19, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles W. Bracken, late of Captain Highsmith's company, Texas Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay him
a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month . Approved, February 19, 1903.

[Private , No. 629. ] CPheanrslieosnW. . Bracken.

CHAP. 735. - An Act Granting a pension to Annie E. Doss.

February 19, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws the name of Annie E. Doss, widow of Sylvester Doss, alias Harry S. Doss, late pilot of the ram Lancaster, Mississippi Marine Brigade, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 19, 1903.

[Private, No. 630.]
Annie E. Doss. Pension.

CHAP. 736. --An Act Granting a pension to Frances Cowie.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances Cowie, widow of George Cowie, late commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month .
Approved, February 19 , 1903. VOL XXXII , PT 2- 27

February 19, 1903.
[Private, No. 631. ]
Frances Cowie. Pension.

1650

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 737-741 . 1903.

February 19, 1903. [Private, No. 632. ]
Ann Gilbert. Pension.

CHAP. 737. -An Act Granting a pension to Ann Gilbert.
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann Gilbert, widow of Amos Gilbert, late seaman, United States Navy , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 19 , 1903.

February 20, 1903.
[Private , No. 633. ]
Michael Conlon. Pension.

CHAP. 738. -An Act Granting a pension to Michael Conlon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Conlon , dependent father of John Conlon, late of Company D, Nineteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 20 , 1903.

February 20, 1903.
[Private, No. 634.]
Austin A. Vore. Pension.

CHAP. 739. - An Act Granting a pension to Austin A. Vore.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Austin A. Vore , late of Company L, Eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 20 , 1903 .

February 20, 1903. CHAP. 740. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William W. Smithson. [Private, No. 635.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United soWni. lliam W. Smith- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William W. Smithson , late sergeant and first lieutenant Companies K and C , One hundred and seventy-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 20 , 1903.

February 20, 1903.
[Private, No. 636. ]
Joseph Bart. Pension increased.

CHAP. 741. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Bart.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . Cs. 741-744, 754. 1903 .
laws, the name of Joseph Bart, late of Company E, Twenty-first Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 20, 1903.

1651

CHAP. 742. -An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Snyder.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Snyder, dependent mother of John Snyder, late of Company A, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and Troop G, Seventh Regiment United States Cavalry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 20 , 1903 .

February 20, 1903 . [Private, No. 637. ]
Margaret Snyder. Pension.

CHAP. 743. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Enos Turner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Enos Turner, late of Company D, United States Mounted Riflemen, war with Mexico, and Company F, One hundred and fifty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 20 , 1903.

February 20, 1903. [Private, No. 638.]
Enos Turner. Pension increased.

CHAP. 744. --An Act Granting a pension to Frances C. Broggan.

February 20, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances C. Broggan , helpless and dependent daughter of Francis Broggan, late of Ordnance Corps, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 20 , 1903.

[Private , No. 639. ] Frances C. Broggan.
Pension.

CHAP. 754. -An Act For the relief of Hamilton M. Sailors.

February 24, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 640. ]

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of the Hamilton ors.

M.

Sail-

Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay Hamilton Payment to.

M. Sailors , late Company K, One hundred and first Indiana Volunteers , the difference of pay and allowances between those of a private and those of a second lieutenant from May twenty- sixth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, to October tenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-three ,

he having performed the duties of said office , under proper appointment and assignment, during that period.

Approved , February 24, 1903.

1652

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 758-761 . 1903 .

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 758. -An Act For the relief of Henry L. McCalla.

[Private, No. 641. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

GHreannrtyedL. hMocnCoarlalbal.e States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War

discharge.

be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge

of dishonorable dismissal against Henry L. McCalla, late captain of

Proviso. No pay, etc.

Company G, Thirty- first Regiment Indiana Volunteers, and grant him an honorable discharge : Provided, That no pay , bounty, or other emolument shall become due or payable by virtue of the passage of this Act.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 642. ]
John S. Whitlege. Pension.

CHAP. 759. -An Act Granting a pension to John S. Whitlege.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Whitlege , late of Company F, Twenty - eighth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 760. -An Act To refund certain taxes paid by the Anheuser-Busch Brew[Private, No. 643: ] ing Association, of Saint Louis, Missouri.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

BrAenwihnegusAsesroc-iBautsiocnh, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Commissioner of

Saint Louis, Mo.

Internal Revenue be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to reopen

reRveefnuunedtaoxfesi.nternal and consider all claims of the Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association

for the refunding of seven and one- half per centum discount upon the

taxes paid upon fermented liquors in storage or in transit June four-

teenth, eighteen hundred and ninety- eight, any statute of limitation to

the contrary notwithstanding, and to allow such portion of said claim

Payment .

as shall be shown to him to have been illegally collected in excess of the amount required by law; and the Secretary of the Treasury is

hereby authorized and directed to pay, out of any money in the Treas

ury not otherwise appropriated, such amounts, not to exceed in the

aggregate nine hundred and eighty-six dollars and thirty-two cents, as

shall be certified by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to have

been illegally collected from the Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association

as tax on fermented liquors in storage or in transit June fourteenth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight.

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 761. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Jones.

[Private, No. 644. ] James Jones. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Jones, late first lieutenant and quartermaster Sixty - sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHs . 762-766 . 1903.

1653

CHAP. 762. - An Act To refund penalty to the Bank of Colfax, Iowa.

February 25, 1903.

[Private, No. 645.]
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Bank of Colfax,
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Iowa.
Treasury is authorized and directed to refund to the Bank of Colfax, Refund special tax

Iowa, the sum of seventy-five dollars, penalty collected by reason of penalty to.

delay in the receipt of special tax .

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

CHAP. 763. --An Act Granting a pension to Elise Sigel.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elise Sigel, widow of Franz Sigel, late major-general, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of one hundred dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 646. ]
Elise Sigel. Pension.

CHAP. 764. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary H. Rumple.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary H. Rumple, widow of John N. W. Rumple, late captain Company H, Second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 647.]
Mary H. Rumple. Pension .

CHAP. 765. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George F. Howe, alias February 25, 1903.

Harrington.

[Private, No. 648. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United George F. Howe, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the alias Harrington. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George F. Howe, alias Harrington , late of Company L, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25, 1903.

CHAP. 766. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Merritt Young.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Merritt Young, late of Company C, Thirteenth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved , February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 649. ]
Merritt Young. Pension increased.

1654

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHs. 767-771 . 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 650.]
William Y. Turner.

CHAP. 767. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Y. Turner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Y. Turner, late of Company F, Fifteenth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 651. ]
Franklin Chase. Pension increased.

CHAP. 768. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin Chase.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin Chase, late of Company E, First Regiment

Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private , No. 652. ]
Harriet Hatch. Pension increased.

CHAP. 769. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harriet Hatch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harriet Hatch, widow of Albion L. Hatch, late of

Company F, Twenty -fourth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and

Proviso.

pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of

Increase to cease on that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death of

death of child.

Cassie R. Hatch, blind and dependent child of said Albion L. Hatch,

the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 653.]
Lyman Matthews. Pension increased.

CHAP. 770. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lyman Matthews.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lyman Matthews, late of Company E, Ninth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 654. ]
Charles W. Colby. Pension increased.

CHAP. 771. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles W. Colby.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 771-775.
laws, the name of Charles W. Colby , late of Company G, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25, 1903.

1655

CHAP. 772.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas J. George.

February 25, 1903.

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas J. George, late of Company D, Fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and major, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 655. ]
Thomas J. George. Pension increased.

CHAP. 773. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bowman H. Peterson. February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 656. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Bowman H. PeterStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son.
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bowman H. Peterson , late surgeon Eighth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and major, Twenty-ninth and Sixth
regiments Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

CHAP. 774.-An Act Granting a pension to Elizabeth Neal.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Neal, widow of John W. Neal, late second lieutenant Company A , Eighty-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 657. ]
Elizabeth Neal. Pension.

CHAP. 775. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Flavius Shanks.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Flavius Shanks, late of Company K, One hundred and sixteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and Tenth Battery Indiana Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 658.]
Flavius Shanks. Pension increased.

1656

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHs. 776-780. 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 659. ]
Edna K. Hoyt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 776. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edna K. Hoyt.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edna K. Hoyt, widow of Charles H. Hoyt, late major and quartermaster, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 660. ]
Thomas Doyle. Pension increased.

CHAP. 777. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Doyle.
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Doyle, late first lieutenant and adjutant, First Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 661. ]
Hilas D. Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 778. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hilas D. Davis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Hilas D. Davis , late of Company K, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 662. ]
Elbert Chittum. Pension increased.

CHAP . 779. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elbert Chittum.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elbert Chittum , late of Company F, Ninetieth Reg-

iment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 663. ]
John M. Drake. Pension increased .

CHAP . 780. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John M. Drake.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS , 780-784. 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John M. Drake, late captain Company D, First Regiment Oregon Volunteer Cavalry, and lieutenant- colonel First Regiment Oregon Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

1657

CHAP. 781. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary A. Everts.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Everts, widow of George Everts , late of Company A, Fifteenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved , February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 664. ]
Mary A. Everts. Pension.

CHAP. 782. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Kepler.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Kepler, late of Company C, Fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 665. ]
William Kepler. Pension increased .

CHAP. 783. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah B. Barger.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah B. Barger, widow of Benjamin F. Barger, late major, Thirty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty - five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of the said Benjamin F. Barger until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private , No. 666. ] Sarah B. Barger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 784. -An Act Granting a pension to Margaret A. Munson.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private , No. 667. ]
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soMna. rgaret A. MunInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret A. Munson, widow of John A. Munson , late of Company D, Twenty-seventh Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

1658

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II . Cs . 785-789 . 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 785. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew J. Pennel. [Private, No. 668. ] Andrew J. Pennel. Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United Pension increased. " States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew J. Pennel, late of Company F , Ninety - first Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 669.]
Sarah J. Snook. Pension.

CHAP. 786. -An Act Granting a pension to Sarah J. Snook.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah J. Snook, widow of John Snook, late of Company H, Seventy -eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 670.]
Rose O. Crummett. Pension.

CHAP . 787. - An Act Granting a pension to Rose O. Crummett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rose O. Crummett, widow of George E. Crummett, late of Company D, Sixteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and second lieutenant Company L, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 671. ]
James A. Capen. Pension increased .

CHAP. 788. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James A. Capen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James A. Capen, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903 .

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 789. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard A. Larimer. [Private, No. 672. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United RPeincshiaornd iA.ncLraeraisemde.r. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHs . 789-793 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Richard A. Larimer, late of Company C, Twentyfourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

1659

CHAP. 790. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George W. McComb. February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George W. McComb, late of Company I, Eighth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry , and Company K, Eighth Regiment Veteran Reserve Corps , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 673. ] GPeonrsigoenWi.nMcrceCasoemdb. .

CHAP. 791. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Israel F. Barnes.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Israel F. Barnes, late of Company D, Twenty -sixth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 674. ]
Israel F. Barnes. Pension increased.

CHAP. 792. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ardenia Dillon.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ardenia Dillon, widow of William P. Dillon , late captain Company D, Sixth and One hundred and forty -sixth Regiments Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved , February 25 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 675. ] Ardenia Dillon . Pension increased.

CHAP. 793. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Israel V. Hoag.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Israel V. Hoag, late of Captain Palmer's Independent Company , Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 676.] Israel V. Hoag. Pension increased.

1660

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 794-798 . 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 794. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henderson Mercer.

[Private, No. 677.] HPeennsdieornsoinncMreearsceedr..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henderson Mercer, late of Company C, One hun-

dredth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay

him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 678. ]
Berthol Fernow. Pension increased .

CHAP. 795. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Berthold Fernow.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Berthold Fernow, late second lieutenant Company I, Third Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 679. ]
Samuel J. Boyer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 796. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel J. Boyer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel J. Boyer, late of Company G, Nineteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 680. ] PEleinzsaioEn. iLintctrleeafsieeldd..

CHAP. 797. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza E. Littlefield .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza E. Littlefield, widow of John J. Littlefield ,

late of Company F, Twenty fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer In-

fantry, and assistant surgeon, Eighteenth Regiment Michigan Volun-

teer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars

per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 798. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leonard A. Norton. [Private, No. 681. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United LPeenosniaorndiAn.crNeoarsteodn. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHs. 798-802. 1903.
laws, the name of Leonard A. Norton, late of Company L , First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

1661

CHAP. 799. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fredericke W. Lillman. February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 682. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Fredericke W. LillStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the man. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fredericke W. Lillman , widow of Peter H. Lillman, late of Battery A , Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Light Artillery,
and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

CHAP. 800. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles W. Scherzer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles W. Scherzer, late of Company F, Fourteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and Company M, Twentyfirst Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 683. ]
Charles W.Scherzer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 801. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. H. Bouslough. February 25, 1903.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private , No. 684.] William H. H. Bous-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the lough. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. H. Bouslough, late of Company D, Thirty- eighth Regiment, and Company F, One hundred and sixtyninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

CHAP. 802. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Shaw.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretaryof the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Shaw, late of Company H, One hundred and forty-second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

February 25 , 1903.
[Private, No. 685.]
William H. Shaw. Pension increased.

Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

1662

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 803-807 . 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 686.]
John P. Travis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 803. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John P. Travis .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, an he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John P. Travis, late of Company D, Fourteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 687.]
John P. Post. Pension increased.

CHAP. 804. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John P. Post.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John P. Post, late second lieutenant Company C, Fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteers, war with Mexico , and colonel

Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 688.]

CHAP. 805. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry R. Bennett.

Henry R. Bennett. Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry R. Bennett, late of Company B, Twentysecond Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 689. ]
APelnpshioonnsoinTc.reGaosueldd. .

CHAP. 806. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alphonso T. Gould .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alphonso T. Gould , late of Company D, Forty- fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 25, 1903 .

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 690. ]
FPernasnikonE.inFcrreeeamseadn..

CHAP. 807. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank E. Freeman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS. 807-811 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank E. Freeman , late of Battery B, First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

1663

CHAP. 808. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Simeon Deno.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Simeon Deno, late of Company K, Sixty-fifth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

[Private, No. 691. ] SPeinmseioonn Diencnroe.ased .

CHAP. 809. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Philip Caslow.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Philip Caslow, late of Company G, One hundred and fortieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 692. ] PPheinlsiiponCaisnlcorewa. sed

CHAP. 810. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John T. Deweese.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John T. Deweese , late lieutenant-colonel Fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 693.]
John T. Deweese. Pension increased.

CHAP . 811. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leman A. Brace.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leman A. Brace, late of Company K, Twentyeighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 694. ]
Leman A. Brace. Pension increased.

1664

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 812-816. 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 695.] APelnmsainonJ.inHcoruesatsoend..

CHAP. 812.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alman J. Houston.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alman J. Houston , late of Company D, Twenty-

fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 696. ]
Mary J. Parker. Pension.

CHAP . 813. - An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Parker.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Parker, former widow of John W. Taylor, late of Company F, First Regiment United States Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 814. -- An Act Granting a pension to Lemuel Kingsbury.

[Private, No. 697.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

LPeenmsuieoln.Kingsbury. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Lemuel Kingsbury , late unassigned, Fifteenth Reg-

iment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 698. ]
Eliza Gallagher. Pension.

CHAP. 815. - An Act Granting a pension to Eliza Gallagher.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza Gallagher, widow of Dennis Gallagher, late of Company B, Thirty-fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903. CHAP . 816. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Timothy Loughlin.

[Private, No. 699. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

TPeinmsoitohnyinLcoruegahsleidn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 816-820. 1903.
laws , the name of Timothy Loughlin, late of Companies I and B, Ninetyninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

1665

CHAP. 817. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James O'Neil.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of James O'Neil, late second lieutenant Company E, Twenty-fifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

[ Private, No. 700. ] JPaemnseisonO'iNnecirle. ased.

CHAP. 818.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar H. Prink.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oscar H. Prink, late of Company E, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 701. ]
Oscar H. Prink. Pension increased.

CHAP. 819. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David N. Tolles.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David N. Tolles, late of Company A, Third Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 702. ]
David N. Tolles. Pension increased.

CHAP. 820. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel G. Towle.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel G. Towle, late captain Company E, Fourth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903. VOL XXXII , PT 2- -28

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 703. ]
Daniel G. Towle . Pension increased.

1666

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 821-825. 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 821. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Thompson. [Private, No. 704.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United soEnl.izabeth Thomp- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Thompson, widow of Matthew Thompson, late of Company K, Seventh Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and
Company K, First Regiment Maine Veteran Volunteer Infantry,
and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 705. ]
George Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 822.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Davis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Davis, late of Company A, Seventy- eighth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry , and Company F, Ninth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25 , 1903.
[Private, No. 706.]
John S. Milam. Pension increased.

CHAP. 823. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John S. Milam.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John S. Milam, late of Captain Ford's detachment, Third Regiment United States Dragoons, war with Mexico , and first lieutenant Company D, First Regiment Indiana Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 707.]
Alvira Randall. Pension.

CHAP. 824. -An Act Granting a pension to Alvira Randall.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alvira Randall, dependent stepmother of John H. McJunkin, late of Company D, Thirty-sixth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 708. ]
Thomas Bassett. Pension increased.

CHAP. 825. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Bassett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 825-829. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Bassett, late of Company K, Fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

1667

CHAP. 826. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Archibald Mclntire.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Archibald McIntire , late of Company H, Fifth Regiment California Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 709. ]
Archibald McIntire, Pension increased.

CHAP. 827. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Phineas L. Squires.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Phineas L. Squires, late of Company B , Sixth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 710.]
Phineas L. Squires. Pension increased.

CHAP. 828.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver G. Wright.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver G. Wright, late of Fourteenth Battery, Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 711.]
Oliver G. Wright. Pension increased.

CHAP. 829. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orlando S. Osborn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Orlando S. Osborn, late of Company C, Sixteenth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 712.]
Orlando S. Osborn. Pension increased.

1668

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 830-834. 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 830. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ephraim Cunningham.

[Private, No. 713. ]
haEmph. raim Cunning Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Ephraim Cunningham, late of Company F, Fourteenth Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 714,]
Betsey Jones. Pension increased.

CHAP. 831. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Betsey Jones.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Betsey Jones , widow of Joseph Jones , late chaplain, Twentieth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 832.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Hamilton , second. [Private, No. 715. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United onJdo.hn Hamilton, sec- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Hamilton , second , late of Battery A , Maryland Junior Volunteer Light Artillery, and Company E, Sixth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving. Approved, February 25, 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 716.]
Frank A. Olney. Pension increased.

CHAP. 833. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank A. Olney.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frank A. Olney , late of Company K, Fortieth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and Company A, Forty-ninth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 717.]
Emmet C. Hill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 834. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emmet C. Hill.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 834-838 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emmet C. Hill , late hospital steward , One hundred and seventeenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

1669

CHAP. 835. --An Act Granting a pension to Addison Arnold.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Addison Arnold, late of Company K, Third Regiment United States Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 718. ]
Addison Arnold . Pension .

CHAP. 836. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cassius B. Fisher.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cassius B. Fisher, late of Company K, Third Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 719. ]
Cassius B. Fisher. Pension increased.

CHAP. 837. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Doberrer.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Doberrer, late of Company K, Tenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

[Private , No. 720. ] John Doberrer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 838. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. White.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. White , late of Company A, Sixtieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 721. ]
James M. White. Pension increased.

1670

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 839-843. 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 722. ]
Andrew C. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 839.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew C. Smith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew C. Smith, late musician, Twenty - fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 723. ]
Annie P. Pinney. Pension.

CHAP. 840. -- An Act Granting a pension to Annie P. Pinney.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Annie P. Pinney, widow of John W. Pinney, late

of Company H, Twenty-eighth Regiment New York Volunteer InfanTo cease if soldier is

living.

try, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, such

pension to cease upon proof that the soldier, John W. Pinney, is

living .

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 724. ]
Emma D. Goslin. Pension.

CHAP. 841. -An Act Granting a pension to Emma D. Goslin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma D. Goslin, widow of Asher Goslin , late surgeon, Forty-eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 842. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen G. Cole.

[Private, No. 725. ]
Stephen G. Cole. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of Stephen G. Cole , late of Company A, Twenty-

seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 726. ]
Deborah Edwards. Pension.

CHAP. 843 .--An Act Granting a pension to Deborah Edwards.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 843-847 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Deborah Edwards , dependent stepmother of Samuel Edwards, late of the Fourth Independent Company, Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

1671

CHAP. 844. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Phillips.

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Phillips, widow of Charles J. Phillips , late first lieutenant Company A, Eighteenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

[Private, No. 727.] .
Mary E. Phillips. Pension increased.

CHAP. 845. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John U. Allen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John U. Allen , late of Ninth Battery, Massachusetts Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 728.]
John U. Allen. Pension increased.

CHAP. 846. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James McMorrow .

February 25, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James McMorrow, late of Company E , Fourth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 25, 1903.

[Private, No. 729. ] James McMorrow. Pension increased .

CHAP. 847. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Grace E. Ash.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Grace E. Ash, widow of Reuben Ash , late first lieutenant Company E, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 730. ]
Grace E. Ash . Pension increased .

Approved, February 25 , 1903 .

1672

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 848-851 , 861. 1903.

February 25, 1903.
[Private, No. 731. ]
Thomas L. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 848. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas L. Smith.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas L. Smith, late of Company E, Tenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 25, 1903. [Private, No. 732.]

CHAP. 849. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hampton B. Farmer.

Hampton B. Farmer. Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Hampton B. Farmer, late of Company H, One hun-

dred and fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him

a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 850. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jasper N. Acree.

[Private, No. 733.]
Jasper N. Acree. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jasper N. Acree, late of Company C, First Regi

ment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 25, 1903.

February 25, 1903. CHAP. 851.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jarrot F. Rigg.

[Private, No. 734. ]
Jarrot F. Rigg. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Jarrot F. Rigg, late of Company H, Thirteenth

Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, February 25 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 735. ]
Sarah J. Warren . Pension increased.

CHAP. 861.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah J. Warren.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS . 861-865 . 1903.
laws, the name of Sarah J. Warren, widow of Thaddeus S. Warren, late of Company E, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

1673

CHAP. 862. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George J. Cheney.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George J. Cheney, late of Company A, Twentieth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

[Private, No. 736. ]
George J. Cheney. Pension increased.

CHAP. 863. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin F. Cornman.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 737.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Benjamin F. Corn
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the maPnen. sion increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Benjamin F. Cornman, late of Company A, Two hundred and ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 864. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emma R. Cropsey.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emma R. Cropsey, widow of Andrew J. Cropsey, late lieutenant-colonel One hundred and twenty-ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 738. ]
Emma R. Cropsey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 865.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Twycross.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Twycross, late of Company G, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 739. ]
Joseph Twycross. Pension increased.

1674

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 866-870. 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 866. -An Act Granting a pension to Charlotte J. Closser. [Private, No. 740. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PCheanrsliootnt.e J. Closser. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charlotte J. Closser, widow of Frederick Closser,
late of Company D , Eleventh Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 741.]
Henry Sickels. Pension increased.

CHAP. 867. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Sickels.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Sickels , late of Company B, Seventh Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 868. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ole Hexom, alias Ole H. [Private, No. 742.] Olson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United OlOelHe. OHlesxono.m, alias States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ole Hexom, alias Ole H. Olson, late of Company K, Thirty-eighth Regiment, and Company I , Thirty-fourth Regiment, Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 743. ]
John W. Slack. Pension increased.

CHAP. 869. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Slack.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Slack, late of Company C, Brackett's Battalion Minnesota Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 870. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elijah A. Woodward.

[Private, No. 744.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

PEleinjsaihonA.iWnocroedawseadr.d. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 870-874. 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of Elijah A. Woodward, late assistant surgeon Thirtysixth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1675

CHAP. 871. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William E. Fehrenback. February 28, 1903.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private , No. 745. ] William E. Fehren-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the back . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William E. Fehrenback, late of Company I, Second Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 872. -An Act Granting a pension to Julia A. Jordan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 746.]
Julia A. Jordan. Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia A. Jordan , dependent mother of Frank H. Jordan, late captain Company E, Ninety-first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 873. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nathaniel A. Winks .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nathaniel A. Winks, late of Company F, Fortyeighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 747. ]
Nathaniel A. Winks. Pension increased.

CHAP. 874. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Andrew Jackson.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Andrew Jackson, late of Company H, Ninety- fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

[Private , No. 748. ]
Andrew Jackson. Pension increased.

1676

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS . 875-879 . 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 749.]
John A. Barcus. Pension increased.

CHAP. 875. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Barcus.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the 'Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Barcus, late of Company A, One hundred and eighty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 876. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas G. Forrester. [Private, No. 750.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United teTr.homas G. Forres- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas G. Forrester, late of Company B, Fourth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 877. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Herbert Whitworth. [Private, No. 751.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PHeenrsbieornt Wihncirtewaosretdh. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Herbert Whitworth, late of Company K , First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Engineers and Mechanics, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 752.]
Robert P. McRae. Pension increased .

CHAP. 878. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert P. McRae.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Robert P. McRae, late of Company M, Eleventh

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 753.]
Allen B. Evans. Pension increased.

CHAP . 879.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Allen B. Evans.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 879-883 . 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Allen B. Evans, late of Company D, Fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

1677

CHAP. 880. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Catharine A. Russell. February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 754.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Catharine A. RusStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the sell. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catharine A. Russell, widow of Calvin S. Russell,
late of Company C , Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry,
and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

CHAP. 881. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orange Sells.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Orange Sells , late captain Company D, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

[Private, No. 755. ]
Orange Sells. Pension increased.

CHAP. 882. --An Act Granting a pension to Margaret J. McCranie.

February 28, 1903.

[Private, No. 756. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Margaret J. McCra-
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the nie. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret J. McCranie, widow of Malcolm McCranie,

late of Captain Archie McCranie's company, Georgia Volunteers,

Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 883. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry O. McClure.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry O. McClure, late of Company A, Thirtysixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 757.]
HPennsriyonO.inMccrCelausrede.

1678

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 884-888. 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 884. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry L. Davenport. [Private, No. 758. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United poHrte.nry L. Daven- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry L. Davenport, late of Company A , Sixteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 759.]
Ann M. Green. Pension.

CHAP. 885.- An Act Granting a pension to Ann M. Green.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann M. Green , widow of George H. Green, late of Company A, First Regiment Michigan Volunteer Engineers and Mechanics, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 760. ]
Mary E. Craig. Pension increased .

CHAP. 886. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Craig.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Craig, widow of William Craig, late captain and assistant quartermaster, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 887. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Barrett.

[Private, No. 761. ]
William Barrett. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Barrett, late of Company C, First Regiment

Indiana Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and Company I , Fif-

teenth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 762. ]
James G. Davis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 888. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James G. Davis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James G. Davis, late of Company D, Fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteers, war with Mexico, and Companies F and H,

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS . 888-892 . 1903.
Fifth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1679

CHAP. 889. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Ann Sears.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 763. ]
Mary Ann Sears. Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Ann Sears, widow of Charles H. Sears, late

of Company K, Eighty- first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry,

and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu

of that she is now receiving: Provided, That in the event of the death

Proviso. Increase to cease on

of Hattie Blanche Sears, helpless and dependent child of said Charles death of child.

H. Sears, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine .

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 890. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William J. Chitwood. February 28, 1903.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 764. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the woWoildl. iam J. ChitInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William J. Chitwood, late of Company A, Eightysecond Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

CHAP. 891. --An Act Granting a pension to Rebecca A. Glass.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca A. Glass, former widow of Josiah M. Christy, late of Company K, Twenty-eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 765. ]
Rebecca A. Glass. Pension.

Approved, February 28, 1903 .

CHAP. 892. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza Little.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza Little, widow of Edward H. Little , late captain Company H, Sixty-fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 766. ]
Eliza Little. Pension increased.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

1680

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS. 893-897. 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 767.]
Orson Nickerson . Pension increased.

CHAP. 893. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Orson Nickerson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Orson Nickerson , late of Company K, Fourth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and Company K, One hundred and sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay

him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 768. ]
PCehanrslieosn Hi.ncBraeranseds.

CHAP. 894. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles H. Barnes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles H. Barnes, late of Company F, Fifty - seventh Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 769. ]
Edward Straub.  Pension increased.

CHAP. 895.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward Straub.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward Straub, late of Company E, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 896. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hester A. R. Landers. [Private, No. 770.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United deHress. ter A. R. Lan- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hester A. R. Landers, widow of Thomas Landers, late medical cadet, United States Army, and assistant surgeon, Tenth
Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 771.]
Hattie Connell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 897. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hattie Connell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 897-901 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hattie Connell, widow of John P. Connell, late second lieutenant Company G, Sixth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1681

CHAP. 898. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elvira C. Compton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elvira C. Compton, widow of Andrew J. Compton, late captain Company B, One hundred and forty- first Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 772. ]
Elvira C. Compton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 899. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel L. Thompson. February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 773.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
Samuel L. ThompStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Samuel L. Thompson, late principal musician Fourth
Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the
rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

CHAP. 900. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Austin H. Patterson.

February 28, 1903.

[Private, No. 774. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Austin H. PatterStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Austin H. Patterson , late captain Company A, Four-

teenth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

CHAP. 901. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Nannie Cushman.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nannie Cushman, widow of Charles H. Cushman, late commander, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 . VOL XXXII , PT 2- -29

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 775. ]
Nannie Cushman. Pension increased .

1682

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 902-906 . 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 902. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Walter G. Tebbetts. [Private, No. 776. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United WPaelnstieornGi.ncTreebabseetdt.s. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Walter G. Tebbetts, late of Company I , First Regiment Illinois Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 903. -An Act Granting a pension to Patrick W. O'Donnell.

[Private, No. 777. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United

nePlla.trick W. O'Don- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension .

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Patrick W. O'Donnell, late seaman, United States

Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.

Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 778. ] CPheanrslieosn Ci.ncCrheeassleedy..

CHAP. 904. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles C. Chesley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles C. Chesley, late second lieutenant Company F, Sixth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28 , 1903. [Private , No. 779.]
RPaecnshieolnE. . Bullard .

CHAP. 905. -An Act Granting a pension to Rachel E. Bullard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rachel E. Bullard, widow of Edmund E. Bullard,

alias Charles Howard , late of Company A, First Regiment New Hamp-

shire Volunteer Light Artillery, and Company C, Eleventh Regiment

Vermont Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of

eight dollars per month.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 780. ]
Mary E. Russell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 906. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Russell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Russell, widow of Charles G. Russell , late

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS. 906-910 . 1903.
first lieutenant Company D, Twelfth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1683

CHAP. 907.--An Act Granting an increase of pension to James B. Taylor.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of James B. Taylor, late of Company A, Eighty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

[Private, No. 781. ]
James B. Taylor. Pension increased .

CHAP. 908. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Luther D. Goddard.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Luther D. Goddard , late of Company D, Fifteenth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 782. ]
Luther D. Goddard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 909. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Noyes.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Noyes, widow of Edward Noyes , late of
Company C, Eleventh Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved , February 28, 1903 .

[Private, No. 783. ] MPeanrsyioA.n iNnocyreesas. ed.

CHAP. 910. -- An Act Granting a pension to Albert M. Smith.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert M. Smith, late of Company K, One hundred and thirty-seventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of ten dollars per month, the same to be paid him without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved , February 28 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 784. ] Albert M. Smith. Pension.

1684

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 911-915. 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 911.- An Act Granting an increase ofpension to Napoleon B. Stockbridge. [Private, No. 785. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United brNiadpgeo.leon B. Stock- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Napoleon B. Stockbridge, late of Company A, One hundred and forty - second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 786.]
Inez McCollum. Pension.

CHAP. 912. --An Act Granting a pension to Inez McCollum.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Inez McCollum, widow of Stephen A. McCollum, late first lieutenant and adjutant Sixty-fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Stephen A. McCollum until she reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 787.]
Adah I. Miller. Pension increased.

CHAP. 913. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Adah I. Miller.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Adah I. Miller, widow of Richard M. J. Miller, late

first lieutenant Company B, Sixty-fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 788. ]
Edmund P. Fox. Pension increased.

CHAP. 914.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edmund P. Fox.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edmund P. Fox, late of Company H, Sixteenth

Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and Company D, Eighteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 789.]
Alice F. Smalley. Pension.

CHAP. 915. -An Act Granting a pension to Alice F. Smalley.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 915-919 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alice F. Smalley, widow of Amos P. Smalley, late of Company G, Second Regiment Missouri State Militia Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said Amos P. Smalley until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

1685

CHAP. 916. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph D. Lockhart.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph D. Lockhart, late of Company D, Third Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 790. ] JPoesnespihonD.inLcorcekahsaerdt. .

CHAP. 917. --An Act Granting a pension to Evarts Ewing Munn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 791. ]
EPveanrstisonE.wing Munn.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Evarts Ewing Munn , widow of Curtis E. Munn ,

late major and surgeon, United States Army, and pay her a pension

at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month .

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

CHAP. 918. -- An Act Granting a pension to Harold P. Waldo.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harold P. Waldo, late of Company B, Tenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

[ Private , No. 792. ] Harold P. Waldo. Pension.

CHAP. 919. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel J. Radcliffe.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel J. Radcliffe, late surgeon and brevet lieutenant- colonel, United States Volunteers , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 793. ]
Samuel J. Radcliffe Pension increased.

1686

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 920-924. 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 794.]
Ann A. Hersum. Pension increased.

CHAP. 920. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann A. Hersum.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann A. Hersum, widow of George L. Hersum, late second lieutenant Company A, Fifth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 921. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Greenman.

[Private, No. 795. ]
James Greenman. Pension increased .

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James Greeuman , late of Company K, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 922. --An Act Granting a pension to Frederick S. Woodward.

[Private, No. 796. ]
waFrrded. erick S. Wood Pension.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Frederick S. Woodward, late hospital steward,

United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of ten dollars per month.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28 , 1903. CHAP. 923. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John F. Briggs.

[Private, No. 797. ]
John F. Briggs. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John F. Briggs, late of Company K, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 798. ]
S. Josie Hill. Pension.

CHAP. 924. - An Act Granting a pension to S. Josie Hill.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of S. Josie Hill, widow of David Hill, late captain Company F, One hundred and fifty-second Regiment New York Vol-

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS. 924-928 . 1903.
unteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of the said David Hill until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1687

CHAP. 925. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alonzo Gilbert.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alonzo Gilbert, late of Company K, One hundred and tenth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No, 799. ]
Alonzo Gilbert. Pension increased.

CHAP. 926. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Willard A. Jackson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension .roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Willard A. Jackson , late of Company A, Seventeenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 800.]
Willard A. Jackson. Pension increased .

CHAP. 927. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caroline W. Bixby.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline W. Bixby, widow of Daniel P. Bixby, late of Company L, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 801. ]
Caroline W. Bixby. Pension increased.

CHAP. 928. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Austin L. Topliff.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Austin L. Topliff, late of Company K, One hundred and Twelfth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and sergeantmajor Thirty-fifth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

Austin L. Topliff. Pension increased .

1688

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 929-933. 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 929. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William A. Dougan. [Private, No. 803. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United PWeinlslioanm iAn.cDroeausgeadn. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William A. Dougan, late of Company E, Ninetythird Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 930. -- An Act Granting a pension to Marcia B. Ferguson.

[Private, No. 804. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PMeanrscioanB.. Ferguson. States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marcia B. Ferguson , widow of Edward Ferguson,

late second lieutenant Company C , First Regiment Wisconsin Volun-

teer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 805. ] POtehnnsiieoln Pi.ncPraeracsheedr. .

CHAP. 931. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Othniel P. Parcher. *
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Othniel P. Parcher, late of the Third Battery (C), First Regiment Maine Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 806.]
Fordyce M. Keith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 932. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fordyce M. Keith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fordyce M. Keith , late major and lieutenant- colonel One hundred and seventeenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry

(First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Heavy Artillery) , and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 933. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gilbert E. Bushnell. [Private, No. 807. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United GPielnbseirotnE.inBcursehanseeldl. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 933-937. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gilbert E. Bushnell , late of Company G, Fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

1689

CHAP. 934. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mitchell Hunt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mitchell Hunt, late of Company H, Second Regiment United States Volunteer Sharpshooters, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 808. ]
Mitchell Hunt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 935. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank Cleaves.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank Cleaves, late of Company I, First Regiment Maine Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twentyfour dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 809.]
Frank Cleaves. Pension increased.

CHAP. 936. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sophie S. Shaffer.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sophie S. Shaffer, widow of William F. Shaffer, late lieutenant- colonel Second Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 810. ]
Sophie S. Shaffer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 937. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leander W. Cogswell.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 811. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United Leander W. Cogs
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the well. Pension increased.
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Leander W. Cogswell, late captain Company D,

Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him

a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving .

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

1690

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 938-942. 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 812. ]
Halvor Paulsen. Pension.

CHAP. 938. --An Act Granting a pension to Halvor Paulsen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Halvor Paulsen , late of United States steamship Minneapolis , United States Navy.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 813. ]
Charles Graham. Pension increased.

CHAP. 939. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Graham.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Graham, late of Company I , Eighty-ninth

Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 814. ]
PHenrsieotnt. a V. West.

CHAP. 940. --An Act Granting a pension to Henrietta V. West.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henrietta V. West, widow of Francis West, late
acting assistant surgeon , United States Army, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 941. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin N. Bond. [Private, No. 815.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United PBeennsjiaomniinncNr.eBasoendd. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin N. Bond, late surgeon, Twenty-seventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 816.]
Ann M. Haskell. Pension increased.

CHAP . 942. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann M. Haskell .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann M. Haskell, widow of Isaac Haskell, late of

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 942-946 . 1903.
Company E , Twenty-third Regiment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

1691

CHAP. 943. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hannah J. Hopkins.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hannah J. Hopkins, widow of Horace L. Hopkins, late acting assistant paymaster, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 817. ]
Hannah J. Hopkins. Pension increased .

CHAP. 944. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles F. Sheldon.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles F. Sheldon , late of Company A, Twelfth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 818. ]
Charles F. Sheldon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 945. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles S. Boyington. February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 819. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the toCnh.arles S. BoyingInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles S. Boyington, late of Company F, One hundred and forty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

CHAP. 946. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen R. Swett.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Stephen R. Swett, late major Second Battalion , First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 820. ] SPteenspihoenniRn.crSewaestetd. .

1692

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 947-951 . 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 821.]
A. Paul Horne. Pension increased.

CHAP. 947. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to A. Paul Horne.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of A. Paul Horne , late of Company B, Ninth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved , February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 948. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martin G. Cushing.

[Private, No. 822. ] PMeanrstiionnGi.nCcurseahsiendg..

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of Martin G. Cushing, late first lieutenant Company H , Fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 823. ]
Lavinia F. Poiron. Pension.

CHAP. 949. --An Act Granting a pension to Lavinia F. Poiron.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lavinia F. Poiron, helpless and dependent daughter of John C. Poiron, late of Company A, Sixth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 824. ]
James Monty. Pension increased.

CHAP. 950. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Monty.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Monty, late of Company H, Second Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 951. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lorenzo P. Duncklee. [Private, No. 825.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United leLeo. renzo P. Dunck- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Lorenzo P. Duncklee , late of Company C, Fourth

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 951-955 . 1903.
Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

1693

CHAP. 952. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Linda F. Moulton .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Linda F. Moulton, widow of William H. Moulton, late of Company I, First Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Cavalry, and first lieutenant and regimental commissary , First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 826. ]
Linda F. Moulton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 953. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Gilman B. Johnson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Gilman B. Johnson, late first lieutenant and regimental quartermaster Eleventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 827. ]
Gilman B. Johnson. Pension increased.

1 CHAP. 954. -An Act Granting an increase of pension, to Maria A. Marden.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Maria A. Marden , widow of William C. Marden, late of Company E , Sixteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 828. ]
Maria A. Marden . Pension increased.

CHAP. 955. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Cummings.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Cummings, late of Company H, Ninth and Sixth regiments New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

[Private, No. 829. ] GPeonrsgioenCiunmcrmeiansgeds..

1694

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 956-960. 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 830. ]
Sarah C. Merrell, Pension increased.

CHAP. 956. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah C. Merrell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate andHouse of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah C. Merrell , widow of Micah R. Merrell, late first lieutenant Company C, Tenth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 957. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ann M. Jackman.

[Private, No. 831. ]
Ann M. Jackman. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ann M. Jackman, widow of Edward G. Jackman,

late of Company A, Eighteenth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer

Proviso.

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving : Provided, That in the

deIantchreoafscehitoldc.ease on event of the death of Fred B. Jackman , invalid and dependent child of

said Edward G. Jackman, the additional pension herein granted shall cease and determine.

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 958. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles L. Pinkham. [Private, No. 832. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United CPheanrslieosnLi.nPcirenaksheadm. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles L. Pinkham, late of Company G, Seventh Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 833. ]
Cyrus B. Norris. Pension increased.

CHAP. 959. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cyrus B. Norris.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cyrus B. Norris, late of Company E, Ninth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 960. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Maggie V. Holstein.

[Private, No. 834. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Maggie V. Holstein. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 960-964. 1903.
laws, the name of Maggie V. Holstein , widow of Charles L. Holstein , late adjutant Twenty- second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and captain and assistant adjutant-general United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, February 28, 1903.

1695

CHAP. 961. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rosetta E. Rafferty.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rosetta E. Rafferty, widow of William A. Rafferty, late colonel Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of each of the minor children of said William A. Rafferty until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved , February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 835. ]
Rosetta E. Rafferty. Pension increased.

CHAP. 962. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fanny Farmer.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fanny Farmer, widow of Augustus B. Farmer, late of Company B, Second Regiment, and captain Company A, Eighteenth Regiment, New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved , February 28 , 1903 .

[ Private , No. 836.] Fanny Farmer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 963. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennie W. Rhoades.

February 28, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie W. Rhoades , widow of Stephen W. Rhoades, late acting master, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

[Private, No. 837.] Jennie W. Rhoades. Pension increased.

CHAP. 964. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary C. Couch.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary C. Couch , widow of Darius N. Couch , late major-general United States Volunteers , and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars a month.
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 838. ]
Mary C. Couch. Pension.

1696

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 965-969. 1903.

February 28, 1903. [Private, No. 839. ]
EPlebnesritonH.inDcargenasaeldl..

CHAP. 965. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elbert H. Dagnall.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elbert H. Dagnall, late of Captain Samuel Bone's company, Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, February 28 , 1903.

February 28, 1903.

CHAP. 966. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. McHenry.

[Private, No. 840. ]

Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

William H.

Henry.

Me- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. McHenry, late of Company D, Sixth

Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, February 28 , 1903 .

February 28, 1903.
[Private, No. 841. ]
Fanny B. Orwan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 967. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fanny B. Orwan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fanny B. Orwan, widow of Frederick A. Orwan, late second- class private, United States Signal Corps, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, February 28, 1903 .

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 968. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to May Mosher Chase.

[Private, No. 842. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

PMeanysiMoonsihnecrreCahsaesde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of May Mosher Chase , widow of Constantine Chase,

late lieutenant- colonel, Artillery Corps, United States Army , and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty-five dollars per month in lieu of
that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said Constantine Chase until he reaches the age of sixteen years.

Approved, February 28, 1903.

February 28, 1903. CHAP. 969. -An Act For the relief of the executors of James P. Willett, deceased, [Private, No. 843. ] late postmaster of the District of Columbia.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

James P. Willett.

Payment to exec- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

utors of.

Treasury be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 969 , 983-985. 1903 .
executors of James P. Willett, deceased, late postmaster of the District of Columbia, who lost his life through an open shaft in the new city post-office building on September thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety- ine, the sum of five thousand dollars, to be distributed as provided by the laws of the District of Columbia in cases of recovery of damages for death by negligence.
Approved, February 28, 1903.

1697

CHAP. 983. -An Act For the relief of Henry P. Montgomery, surviving executor March 2, 1903.

of Granville Garnett, deceased.

[ Private, No. 844. ]

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the GPraaynmveilnlte Gtoarneextetc.u Treasury be, and he is hereby, directed to pay to Henry P. Montgomery, tor of. surviving executor of Granville Garnett, deceased, late of Owen
County, State of Kentucky , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , the sum of one thousand two hundred and eighty dollars and thirty cents , being a refund of the amount paid by said Garnett to the United States, October seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, in satisfaction of a judgment of the United States circuit court for the district of Kentucky against him as surety on a peace bond of one W. G. Humber, which judgment had theretofore been remitted by the President of the United States.
Approved, March 2 , 1903.

CHAP. 984. --An Act Granting a pension to Lavinia Cook.

March 2, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lavinia Cook, widow of Reuben Cook, late of Captain Loyall's company , Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 2 , 1903.

[Private , No. 845. ]
Lavinia Cook. Pension .

CHAP. 985. -An Act For the relief of Austin A. Yates.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the proper accounting officers of the Treasury be, and they are hereby, authorized and directed to settle the accounts of Austin A. Yates, late captain , Fourteenth Veteran Reserve Corps, and to give him credit for the sum of thirteen thousand five hundred and thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents , charged to him on the books of the Second Auditor's Office , said sum having been stolen from the safe of his office at Syracuse, New York, on the night of March twenty- fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, while he was acting provost-marshal of the twenty-third district of New York: Provided, That it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of said accounting officers that Captain Yates was not responsible for the loss of said moneys.
Approved, March 2 , 1903. VOL XXXII, PT 2- -30

March 2, 1903. [Private, No. 846. ] ACuresdtiitniAn. aYcactoeusn. ts.
Proviso . Proof required.

1698

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 986-989. 1903 .

March 2, 1903.

CHAP. 986. -An Act For the relief of Francis M. Oliver.

[Private, No. 847.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Francis M. Oliver.
Honorable dis- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of War be,

charge granted.

and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remove the charge of

desertion against the record of Francis M. Oliver, late private in Company E , Thirty-third Regiment of Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and to grant him an honorable discharge as of the date of the muster out of said regiment.

Approved, March 2 , 1903.

March 2 , 1903. [I rivate, No. 848. ]

CHAP. 987. - An Act To pay John F. Lawson two hundred and thirty-seven dollars and ninety-six cents, balance due him for services as United States mail carrier.

John F. Lawson. Payment to.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Postmaster- General be, and is hereby, directed to pay to John F. Lawson , of Hickman County, Tennessee, the sum of two hundred and thirty- seven dollars and ninety-six cents , being the balance owing to him for services rendered as United States mail carrier on route numbered ten thousand
and thirteen, Tennessee, from January first to November twenty- ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and said sum will be paid out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Approved, March 2, 1903.

March 2 , 1903.

CHAP. 988. -An Act For the relief of Daniel F. Lee.

[Private, No. 849.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Daniel F. Lee. Honorable

dis-

States of America

in

Congress

assembled, That

Daniel

F.

Lee shall

harge granted.

hereafter be held and considered to have been honorably discharged

Proviso. No pay, etc.

from the military service of the United States as a private of Company H , Sixth Kansas Cavalry Volunteers, on the first day of August, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, and the Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed to issue a certificate of honorable discharge for him in accordance with the terms of this Act : Provided, That no pay or other allowance shall be due or payable to any person by reason of the passage of this Act.

Approved, March 2 , 1903 .

March 2, 1903.

CHAP. 989. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Caleb C. Van Sickell.

[Private, No. 850. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
CPeanlseiboCn.VinacnrSeiacskeedl.l. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Caleb C. Van Sickell, late first lieutenant Company

I, Fourth Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving .

Approved , March 2 , 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1022-1025. 1903.

1699

CHAP. 1022. -An Act For the relief of Robert Brigham .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and is hereby authorized and directed to pay to Robert Brigham, late postmaster at Franklin , Pennsylvania, the sum of two thousand two hundred and sixty -six dollars and eighty -nine cents , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the same. being amount lost through the failure of Venango National Bank, where such money was deposited by order of the Postmaster- General .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 851. ]
Robert Brigham. Payment to.

CHAP. 1023. -An Act For the relief of Anthony R. Ravenscroft.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United [Private, No. 852.]
States of America in Congress assembled, That Anthony R. Ravens- crAofntt. hony R. Ravenscroft shall hereafter be held and considered to have been honorably Honorable disdischarged from the military service of the United States as a captain charge granted. of the Twenty- second Regiment of Indiana Infantry Volunteers on the
twenty-second day of August, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, by reason of the expiration of his term of service, and the Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed to issue a certificate of honor-
Proviso. able discharge for him in accordance with the terms of this Act : Provided, That no pay or other allowances shall be due or payable to any No pay, etc.
person by reason of the passage of this Act.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

CHAP. 1024. -An Act For the relief of George A. Rogers.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That there be appropriated, out of money not otherwise appropriated in the Treasury of the United States, the sum of one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one dollars and one cent, to pay the damages inflicted upon George A. Rogers , a contractor with the Government, while drilling from the lighter Daylight, in the East River, New York Harbor, said damages being occasioned by the running of the United States torpedo boats at an unwarranted and illegal rate of speed.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 853. ] GPeaoyrmgeenAt.toR.ogers.

CHAP. 1025. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George M. Duffy.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George M. Duffy , late of Company K, Eleventh Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private , No. 854. ] GPeenosrigoenMi.ncDruefafsye, d.

1700

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1026-1030 . 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 855. ]
Winfield Pierce. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1026. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Winfield Pierce.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Winfield Pierce, late of Company A, Seventh Regimen Indiana Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 856. ]
Eben Slawson. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1027. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eben Slawson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eben Slawson, late of Company G, Second Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1028. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Van Deusen.

[Private, No. 857 ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
DeGuesoenr.ge H. Van States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of George H. Van Deusen , late acting assistant surgeon ,

United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars

per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1029. - An Act Granting a pension to John R. Dougherty.

[Private, No. 858. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
JPeonhsnioRn. . Dougherty. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John R. Dougherty, late of Company F, Fourth

Regiment, Indiana Legion , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1030. - An Act Granting a pension to Rodney W. Anderson.

[Private, No. 859. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

soRno. dney W. Ander- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Rodney W. Anderson , late acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1031-1035 . 1903.

1701

CHAP. 1031. --An Act Granting a pension to Charles S. F. Hilton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles S. F. Hilton , foster father of John Hilton, late of the United States steamship Tahoma, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 860. ]
Charles S. F. Hilton. Pension.

CHAP. 1032. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias P. Stearns.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias P. Stearns , late of Company G, Seventysecond Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 861. ]
Elias P. Stearns. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1033. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Matthew W. Lincoln . March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 862. ]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Matthew W. LinStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the coln."
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matthew W. Lincoln , late of Company I, Fourth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at
the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

CHAP. 1034. -An Act Granting a pension to Margaret A. Stuart.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret A. Stuart, widow of Iley T. Stuart, late of Company H , Fifth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Mounted Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[ Private , No. 863. ] PMeanrsgiaorne.t A. Stuart.

CHAP. 1035. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James F. Campbell.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James F. Campbell, late first lieutenant Company G, Eleventh Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

[ Private, No. 864. ]
James F. Campbell. Pension increased.

1702

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1036-1040 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 865.] JPoesnesipohnS.inCchrielacsoeadt..

CHAP. 1036. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph S. Chilcoat.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph S. Chilcoat, late of Company I, One hundred

and twenty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 866. ]
Mary E. Fleming. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1037. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Fleming.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Fleming, widow of John P. Fleming, late captain Company G, One hundred and first Regiment Ohio Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 867.]
Sarah E. Merritt. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1038. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Merritt.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah E. Merritt, widow of Charles M. Merritt, late captain and assistant quartermaster United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1039. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Spalding.

[Private, No. 868. ]
John A. Spalding. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of John A. Spalding, late of Company F, Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is

now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1040. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to George H. Higgins.

[Private, No. 869. ] PGeenosrigoenHi.ncHriegagsiends. .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1040-1044. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George H. Higgins, late of Company C, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1703

CHAP. 1041. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary J. Goodrich.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary J. Goodrich, widow of David N. Goodrich, late of Company D, Twenty-eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 870.]
Mary J. Goodrich . Pension .

CHAP. 1042. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Cornelia S. Ribble.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Cornelia S. Ribble , widow of George T. Ribble , late assistant surgeon , Eleventh Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private , No. 871.]
Cornelia S. Ribble. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1043. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emily Hawkins.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Emily Hawkins , widow of George S. Hawkins , late first lieutenant Captain Wood's company, Florida Militia, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 872. ]
Emily Hawkins. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1044.-An Act Granting a pension to Charles M. Walker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles M. Walker, late unassigned , Second Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 873.]
Charles M. Walker. Pension.

1704

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1045-1049 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1045. -An Act Granting a pension to Catharine A. Sawdy.

[Private, No. 874.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
CPaetnhsairoinn. e A.Sawdy. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Catharine A. Sawdy, dependent mother of Henry

J. Sawdy, late first lieutenant Company I , First Regiment Michigan

Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve

dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. CHAP. 1046. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles A. Rittenhouse. [Private, No. 875.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United hoCuhsaer.les A. Ritten- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles A. Rittenhouse, late chaplain Seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private , No. 876. ]
Martha J. Bishop. Pension .

CHAP. 1047. --An Act Granting a pension to Martha J. Bishop.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha J. Bishop, widow of William P. Bishop , late of Company A, Thirty-eighth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 877. ]
Johanna Buse. Pension.

CHAP. 1048. -An Act Granting a pension to Johanna Buse.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Johanna Buse , widow of Louis O. Buse , late recruit, United States Army, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 878.] BPelnlseioL.n Sipnacurleadsiendg..

CHAP. 1049. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Belle L. Spaulding.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1049-1053 . 1903..
laws, the name of Belle L. Spaulding, widow of Frank P. Spaulding, late of Company A, Thirty-sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1705

CHAP . 1050. - An Act Granting a pension to George R. Grubaugh.

March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 879. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States of America in Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of

the

George baugh .

R.

Gru-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George R. Grubaugh, late of Company F , Seventy-

second Regiment Enrolled Missouri Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

CHAP. 1051. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Pensinger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Pensinger, late of Company G, Ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 880. ]
Henry Pensinger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1052. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Kehn.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of John H. Kehn, late of Company K, and first lieutenant Company I , Twenty-fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 881. ]
John H. Kehn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1053. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph A. Wilson.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph A. Wilson , late of Company F, Fourth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 882.] JPoesnespiohnA.inWcirlesaosned. .

1706

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1054-1058. 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 883. ]
John E. Pickard. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1054. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John E. Pickard.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John E. Pickard , late of Company G, Eighth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 884. ]
Philip Krohn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1055. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Philip Krohn .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Philip Krohn, late first lieutenant Company G, Fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 885. ]
Eliza Wende. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1056. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza Wende.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza Wende, widow of Richard Wende , late of Battery B, Fifth Regiment United States Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1057. --An Act Granting a pension to Sarah D. Lightfoot.

[Private, No. 886. ] PSeanrsaihoDn.. Lightfoot.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Sarah D. Lightfoot , widow of Nathaniel L. Light-

foot, late major, Twelfth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry , and

pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1058. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel S. Mitchell.

[Private, No. 887. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
SPeanmsuieoln Si.ncMrietacsheedll. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Samuel S. Mitchell, late of Company I, Forty-

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1058-1062 . 1903.
eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

1707

CHAP. 1059. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William P. Rhodes.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William P. Rhodes, late captain Company K, One hundred and thirty- fifth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 888. ] William P. Rhodes. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1060 .--An Act Granting a pension to George A. Liston.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George A. Liston , helpless and dependent son of Everhart Liston , late of Company K, Sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 889. ]
George A. Liston. Pension.

CHAP. 1061. -An Act Granting a pension to Deborah J. Fogle.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Deborah J. Fogle, widow of James B. Fogle, late of Company I, Fourteenth Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 890.]
Deborah J. Fogle. Pension.

CHAP. 1062. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James E. Wallace.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 891. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

James E. Wallace. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James E. Wallace, late of Company M, Twelfth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at .

the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

1708

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1063-1067. 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 892.]
Joel Thomason. Pension.

CHAP. 1063. -An Act Granting a pension to Joel Thomason.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joel Thomason , late of Company E, Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 893. ]

CHAP. 1064. -An Act Granting a pension to Abner D. Rutherford.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

foArdb.ner D. Ruther States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Abner D. Rutherford, late of Company F, Sixth

Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 894. ]
James W. Pace. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1065. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James W. Pace.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James W. Pace, late of Company G, Third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1066. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Patrick Mahan.

[Private, No. 895. ]
Patrick Mahan. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of Patrick Mahan, late of Company B, One hundred and twenty- fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he

is now receiving .

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1067. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Travis.

[Private, No. 896. ]
James M. Travis. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of James M. Travis , late of Company D, Seventy-

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1067-1071 . 1903.
ninth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1709

CHAP. 1068. -An Act Granting a pension to Oliver W. Newton.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver W. Newton, helpless and dependent son of Francis L. Newton, late Company E, Fiftieth Regiment New York Volunteer Engineers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 897.] Oliver W. Newton. Pension.

CHAP. 1069. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. T. Hostetler.

March 3, 1903. [ Private , No. 898. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United William H. T. HosStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the tetler.
Pension increased. Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of William H. T. Hostetler, late of Company I, Eighty-
first Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now
receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1070. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jacob E. Richards.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jacob E. Richards, late of Company F, Eighty- ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 899. ]
Jacob E. Richards. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1071. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lambert Johnston .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lambert Johnston , late of Company F, Tenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 900.]
Lambert Johnston. Pension increased.

1710

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1072-1076 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1072. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christine B. Knapp.

[Private, No. 901. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
PCehrnissitoinneinBc.rKeansaepdp. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Christine B. Knapp , widow of Arthur W. Knapp, late of Company C, Fifteenth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved , March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 902. ]
James Garland. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1073. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Garland.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Garland , late of the United States steamships Active and Marcy , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1074. -An Act. Granting an increase of pension to Amanda E. McQuiddy.

[Private, No. 903.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Amanda E. Mc

Quiddy.

States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Amanda E. McQuiddy, widow of Henry C. McQuiddy,

late of Company F, Fifth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Cavalry, and captain Company I, First Regiment Alabama Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1075. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Catherine P.

[Private, No. 904.] McLorinen.

Catherine P. Mc-

Lorinen.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

Pension increased . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine P. McLorinen, widow of William H.

McLorinen, late of Company H, Fourth Regiment United States Artillery, war with Mexico, and captain Company B, Eighty-sixth Regiment United States Colored Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 905.] Eli Potts. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1076. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eli Potts.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. Cs . 1076-1080 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eli Potts, late of Company K, Fourteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

1711

CHAP. 1077. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah E. Gifford .

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Sarah E. Gifford, widow of Obed H. Gifford , late first
lieutenant Companies K and G, Second Regiment Rhode Island Volunteer Infantry, and carpenter's mate, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

[Private , No. 996.] Sarah E. Gifford. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1078. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Shepherd H. King.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Shepherd H. King , late first lieutenant Company D, Sixth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 907. ] SPehnespihoenrdinHc.reKaisnegd..

CHAP. 1079. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. Whitman.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. Whitman , late of Company D, Sixty- ninth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private , No. 208. ] John A. Whitman. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1080. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Harry L. Graham.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Harry L. Graham, late of Company G , Seventy - first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

[Private, No. 909. ]
Harry L. Graham. Pension increased.

1712

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS . 1081-1085 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 910. ]
Hugh Cool. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1081. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hugh Cool.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hugh Cool, late of Company C, Second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at

the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 911.] Samantha Yant. Pension .

CHAP. 1082. --An Act Granting a pension to Samantha Yant.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samantha Yant, former widow of Thomas Cox , late of Company D, One hundred and seventieth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1083. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Hall.

[Private, No. 912.]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United John H. Hall Pension increased States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Hall , late captain Company H, Eighty-

sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 913.]
Julia Stilwell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1084. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Julia Stilwell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Julia Stilwell, widow of Joseph A. Stilwell, late surgeon Twenty-second Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1085. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas B. Faught.

[Private, No. 914.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PTehnosmiaosn iB.ncFreaausgehdt. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1085-1089. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas B. Faught, late of Company G, Fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty-six dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1713

CHAP. 1085. -An Act Granting a pension to Visa C. Morrill.

March 3, 1903 .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Visa C. Morrill , widow of John Morrill, late colonel
Sixty-fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.

[Private, No. 915. ]
Visa C. Morrill. Pension .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1087. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Morley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Morley, widow of George Morley , late of Company K, Forty-fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and Company F, Twenty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 916. ] MPeanrsyioMnorilnecyre. ased.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

CHAP. 1088. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Curley.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Curley , late of Troop B, Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 917.]
James Curley. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1089. -An Act For the relief of C. W. Colehour.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay to C. W. Colehour, his legal representatives or assigns, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of one thousand and twenty dollars for sheltering and subsisting Eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain.
Approved, March 3, 1903.
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -31

[Private, No. 918. ] C. W. Colehour. Payment to .

1714

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1090-1094. 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 919.] PEellnesnioDn.. Campbell.

CHAP. 1090. -An Act Granting a pension to Ellen D. Campbell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen D. Campbell, widow of Jerome T. Campbell, late of Company B, One hundred and seventy-first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 920.]
Byron C. Knapp. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1091. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Byron C. Knapp.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Byron C. Knapp, late of Company B, Second Battalion , Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1092. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward M. Gammon.

[Private, No. 921. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United moEnd.ward M. Gam- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward M. Gammon , late musician , Thirtieth Regi-

ment Maine Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3 , 1903.
[Private, No. 922. ]
Bridget Fallon. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1093. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Bridget Fallon.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bridget Fallon , widow of Richard Fallon, late of

Company F, Third Battalion , Fifteenth Regiment , United States

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 923.]
Margaret Scanlon. Pension.

CHAP. 1094. - An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Scanlon.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1094-1098 . 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Scanlon , widow of Thomas Scanlon , late of Company B, Kansas City Station Guards, Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

1715

CHAP. 1095. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas Graham.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas Graham, late of Company F, Seventy- eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 924. ]
Thomas Graham. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1096. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert W. Allen.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert W. Allen, late of the First Battery Minnesota Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 925. ]
Albert W. Allen. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1097. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elizabeth Lister.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elizabeth Lister, widow of Frederick W. Lister, late colonel Fortieth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 926. ]
Elizabeth Lister. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1098. --An Act Granting a pension to Alonzo Pendland.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alonzo Pendland, late unassigned , Thirty-third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 927.]
Alonzo Pendland. Pension,

1716

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1099-1103 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 928.]

CHAP. 1099. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sarah Bowen.

Sarah Bowen.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sarah Bowen, widow of Henry Bowen , late captain

Company H, Eleventh Regiment, and Company B, Eighth Regiment, Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of

twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1100. - An Act Granting a pension to Samantha A. Newcomb.

[Private, No. 929.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

coSmabm.antha A. New States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Samantha A. Newcomb, former widow of Arrian

Newcomb, late of Company D, Sixty-sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer

Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 930. ]
John Downing. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1101. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Downing.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Downing , late of Company E, Fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 931.]
Frances E. Wild. Pension.

CHAP. 1102. -An Act Granting a pension to Frances E. Wild.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frances E. Wild, widow of Edward A. Wild , late brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1103. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David K. Wardwell.

[Private, No. 932. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

PDeanvsiidonK.iWncarredawseeldl. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of David K. Wardwell, late of Company E, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico , and captain

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS. 1103-1107. 1903.
Company F, Fifth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, lieutenant-colonel Thirty-eighth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and lieutenant- colonel, Veteran Reserve Corps, United States Army, war of the rebellion , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1717

CHAP. 1104. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James B.Martin.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James B. Martin , late of Company C, Tenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 933. ] James B. Martin. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1105. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oscar M. Peck.

March 3, 1903.

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oscar M. Peck, late of Company G, One hundred and eighty-fourth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 934.]
Oscar M. Peck. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1106. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William T. Moore.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William T. Moore , late of Company H, Eighty-first Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 935.]
William T. Moore. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1107. -An Act Granting a pension to Bridget Logan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Bridget Logan, dependent mother of William Logan, late of Company K, Second Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 936. ]
Bridget Logan. Pension.

1718

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1108-1112. 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1108. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph A. Kauffman.

[Private, No. 937. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United JPoesnespihonA.iKncaruefafsmedan. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph A. Kauffman , late second lieutenant Com-

pany G, One hundred and eighty-sixth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars

per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1109. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William C. Crawford.

[Private, No. 938. ]
foWrdi.lliam C. Craw Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William C. Crawford, late of Company I , Sixty-ninth

Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1110. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Henry Staff.

[Private, No. 939.]
Henry Staff. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry Staff, late of Company F, Twentieth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3 , 1903.
[Private, No. 940. ]
Lillie V. Ball . Pension increased .

CHAP. 1111. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lillie V. Ball.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lillie V. Ball, widow of Charles H. Ball , late second assistant engineer, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 941.]
Jessie V. Cluxton. Pension.

CHAP. 1112. -An Act Granting a pension to Jessie V. Cluxton.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1112-1116 . 1903.
laws, the name of Jessie V. Cluxton, helpless and dependent daughter of John V. Cluxton, late first lieutenant Company F, Eighty-eighth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1719

CHAP. 1113. -An Act Granting a pension to John Wallace.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Wallace , late of Company K, Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 942. ]
John Wallace. Pension.

CHAP. 1114. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Brattain.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Brattain , late of Company E, Thirty- fourth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 943.] John W. Brattain. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1115. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac Gabrion.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of theUnited
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac Gabrion, late of Company B, Thirty -fifth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 944. ] Isaac Gabrion. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1116. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Murphy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Murphy, widow of James Murphy, late captain Company F, Twentieth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

March 3, 1903.
[Private No. 945. ]
Mary Murphy. Pension increased.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

1720

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1117-1121 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1117. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Matilda Smith.

[Private, No. 946. ]
Matilda Smith. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matilda Smith, widow of Gilbert A. Smith , late of

Company K, One hundred and sixty-sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer

Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars_per

Proviso. Increase to cease on

month

in

lieu of

that she is now receiving :

Provided, however,

That

death of child.

in the event of the death of the helpless child, Eva L. Smith, on whose

account the pension of Matilda Smith is increased, the pension of said Matilda Smith shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per

month from and after the death of said helpless child .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1118. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary R. Bayly, formerly Mary S.

[Private, No. 947.] Redick.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

meMralryyMaRr.yBSa.yRleyd,ifcokr. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary R. Bayly, formerly Mary S. Redick , late nurse , Medical Department, United States Volunteers, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 948. ]
MPeanbseilonA.. Woolsey.

CHAP. 1119. -An Act Granting a pension to Mabel A. Woolsey.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mabel A. Woolsey, helpless and dependent daughter of Harvey Woolsey, late of Company D, Seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 949. ]
Frances E. Luse. Pension .

CHAP. 1120. - An Act Granting a pension to Frances E. Luse.
Beit enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Frances E. Luse, widow of Jesse B. Luse, late of Company C, One hundred and twenty- fifth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 950. ]
Daniel Van Wie. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1121. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel Van Wie.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1121-1125. 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel Van Wie, late of Company E, Seventy -sixth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1721

CHAP. 1122. -An Act Granting a pension to Wallace L. Scott.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Wallace L. Scott, late unassigned , Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 951.]
Wallace L. Scott. Pension.

CHAP. 1123. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael K. Strayer.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael K. Strayer, late of Company C, Eighth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 952.]
Michael K. Strayer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1124. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Feldhausen.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Feldhausen , late of Company H, Fourth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 953. ] JPoesnespihonFienlcdrheaausseedn. .

CHAP. 1125. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver P. Alsbach.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver P. Alsbach , late of Company E, Tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 954. ] Oliver P. Alsbach. Pension increased.

1722

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS. 1126-1130 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1126. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert J. Hart.

[Private, No. 955.]

Albert J. Hart.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albert J. Hart, late of Company B, Seventh Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1127. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Copley.

[Private, No. 956.]
John W. Copley. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Copley, late of Companies H and C, Four-

teenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1128. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jennie M. Gilbert.

[Private, No. 957.]
Jennie M. Gilbert. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and HouseofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jennie M. Gilbert, widow of Lorenzo Gilbert, late

of Company F, One hundred and fifty-third Regiment New York Vol-

Proviso.

unteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty-four dol-

deIantchreoafscehtioldc,ease on lars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving : Provided, however, That in the case of the death of the helpless child , Grace Gilbert, on

whose account the pension of Jennie M. Gilbert is increased , the pension of the said Jennie M. Gilbert shall continue only at the rate of

twelve dollars per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1129. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ferdinand Heiskell.

[Private, No. 958. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

FPeenrsdiionnanidncHreeiasskeedll. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ferdinand Heiskell, late of Company B, Second Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 959.]
William Vogan. Pension.

CHAP. 1130. -An Act Granting a pension to William Vogan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 1130-1134. 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Vogan, dependent father of IvesterVogan, late of Company K, One hundredth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

1723

CHAP. 1131. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Plummer Lewis.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Plummer Lewis, late of Company F, Twenty- eighth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 960.]
Plummer Lewis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1132.-An Act Granting a pension to Edward Bryan.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward Bryan, late of Company I, First Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 961. ]
Edward Bryan. Pension.

CHAP. 1133. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac Harris.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac Harris, late of Company F, Second Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, and Company A, Seventh Regiment United States Veteran Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 962. ]
Isaac Harris. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1134. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander H. Taylor. March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private , No. 963. ]

States of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That the

Secretary

of

the

Alexander lor.

H.

Tay-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Alexander H. Taylor , late of Company E, Twelfth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at

the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

1724

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1135-1139 . 1903.

March 3 , 1903. [Private, No. 964.]
toMma.ry E. Winterbot Pension.

CHAP. 1135. --An Act Granting a pension to Mary E. Winterbottom.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Winterbottom , widow of Harrison T. Win-

terbottom, late of Company A, First Regiment Eastern Shore Mary-

land Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1136. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Wright.

[Private, No. 965. ]
John C. Wright. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Wright, late of Company E, One hundred

and fifty-ninth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 966.]
waSya.muel N. North Pension increased .

CHAP. 1137. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Samuel N. Northway.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel N. Northway, late of Company D, Fourth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1138. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albanis L. Anderson.

[Private, No. 967.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United soAnl. banis L. Ander States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Albanis L. Anderson , late first lieutenant Company F , Third Regiment Delaware Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pen-

sion at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 968. ]
Henry H. Windes. Pension.

CHAP. 1139. -An Act Granting a pension to Henry H. Windes.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1139-1143 . 1903.
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Henry H. Windes, late scout and guide , United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1725

CHAP. 1140. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Anson Lewis.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws,. the name of Anson Lewis, late of Company K, Twelfth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 969. ]
Anson Lewis. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1141. -An Act Granting a pension to Arvilla N. Stocker.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Arvilla N. Stocker, widow of Henry T. Stocker , late sailmaker, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 970. ]
Arvilla N. Stocker. Pension .

CHAP. 1142. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Wilcox.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William F. Wilcox, late second lieutenant Company B, Eighty-first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving, the same to be paid to him under the rules of the Pension Bureau as to mode and times of payment without any deduction or rebate on account of former alleged overpayments or erroneous payments of pension.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 971.]
William F. Wilcox. Pension increased,

CHAP. 1143. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Sands.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Sands, late of Company B, Eighty- eighth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [ Private, No. 972.]
William Sands. Pension increased.

1726

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1144-1148 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 973.]
Callie West. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1144. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Callie West.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Callie West, widow of Burris C. West, late of Com-

pany G, Sixty-sixth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 974. ]
Amanda Burke. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1145. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Amanda Burke.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of theUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Amanda Burke, widow of Milo M. Burke, late of

the United States steamship Henry James, United States Navy, and

pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of

Proviso. Increase to cease on

that

she

is

now

receiving :

Provided, however,

That in the event of the

death of child.

death of the helpless child Edith Burke, on whose account the pension

of Amanda Burke is increased, the pension of said Amanda Burke

shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars per month from and

after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1146. -- An Act Granting a pension to Alexander J. Thomson.

[Private, No. 975.]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

soAnl. exander J. Thom- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Alexander J. Thomson, late of Company L, First

Regiment Georgia Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 976.]
John W. Day. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1147. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John W. Day.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John W. Day, late acting assistant paymaster, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 977.]
William Kenny. Pension.

CHAP. 1148. -An Act Granting a pension to William Kenny.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1148-1152.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Kenny, late of Company B, Twenty- second Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1727

CHAP. 1149. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael O. Sullivan.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael O. Sullivan, late of Company H, Sixteenth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 978. ]
Michael O. Sullivan. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1150. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William King.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William King, late acting third assistant engineer ranking with midshipman , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 979. ]
William King. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1151. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Peter B. Rouch.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Peter B. Rouch, late captain Company L, Eleventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 980. ]
Peter B. Rouch. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1152. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph H. Ludlum.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph H. Ludlum , late of Company A, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 981. ] JPoesnespihonHi.nLcruedalsuedm,.

1728

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1153-1157 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 982.]
Mary E. Barger. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1153. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary E. Barger.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary E. Barger, widow of Harrison C. Barger, late second lieutenant Company D, Second Regiment Illinois Volunteer Light Artillery, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1154. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin F. Olcott.

[Private, No. 983.] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
BPennsjiaomniinncFr.eOalsceodt.t. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Benjamin F. Olcott, late of Company I, Tenth Regi-

ment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate

of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1155. -An Act Granting a pension to Louisa Josephine Stanwood.

[Private, No. 984. ]

Louisa Josephine StaBteesitoefnaAcmteedribcyathienSeCnoantgereasnsd aHsosuesmebloefdR, eTphraetsentthaetiSveescroefttahrey Uonfittheed

Stanwood.

Pension.

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Louisa Josephine Stanwood, widow of James H.

Stanwood, late first lieutenant Company C, Twentieth Regiment Maine

Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen

dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 985.]
Margaret Bell. Pension.

CHAP. 1156. --An Act Granting a pension to Margaret Bell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Margaret Bell, widow of James Bell, late of Company E, Seventh Regiment United States Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month, and two dollars per month additional on account of the minor child of said James Bell until he reaches the age of sixteen years.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1157. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Helen Olivia Leckie.

[Private, No. 986. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and Houseof Representatives ofthe United
PHenlseinoOnlivnicareLaescekdi.e. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1157-1161. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Helen Olivia Leckie , widow of Henry Leckie, late of Company E, Third Regiment Louisiana Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1729

CHAP. 1158. -An Act Granting a pension to Theodore Buri.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Theodore Buri, late of Company B, Sixteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 987. ] Theodore Buri. Pension.

CHAP. 1159. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary Ann Garrison.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary Ann Garrison, widow of Joseph N. Garrison , late of Captains Ellis and Hendley's Companies of Florida Mounted Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 988. ]
Mary Ann Garrison. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1160. --An Act Granting a pension to Simon M. Yates.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Simon M. Yates, late of Company E, First Regiment Mississippi Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 989. ]
Simon M. Yates. Pension.

CHAP. 1161. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Rebecca Randolph.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Rebecca Randolph, widow of Alonzo T. Randolph, late of Company H, One hundred and forty-eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and Company K, One hundredth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -32

[Private, No. 990.]
Rebecca Randolph. Pension increased.

1730

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1162-1166 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 991. ]
Nancy McGuire. Pension.

CHAP. 1162. -An Act Granting a pension to Nancy McGuire.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Nancy McGuire, widow of John McGuire, late of Captain Dawson's company Georgia Volunteers, Creek Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1163. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver C. Jackson.

[Private, No. 992. ]
Oliver C. Jackson. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Oliver C. Jackson, late of Company M, One hun-

dredth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1164. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Marcus L. Vermillion.

[Private, No. 993. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
lioMna.rcus L. Vermil- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Marcus L. Vermillion , late of Company G, Eighteenth Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a

pension at the rate of twenty - four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1165. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Solomon A. Alexander.

[Private , No. 994.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United

deSro. lomon A. Alexan- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Solomon A. Alexander, late of Company G, Palmetto Regiment South Carolina Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico,

and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1166. -An Act Granting a pension to William M. Wilson .

[Private, No. 995.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited

WPielnslioanm. M. Wilson. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be , and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1166-1170 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William M. Wilson, dependent father of Thomas Wilson, late of Company C, Fourth Regiment Vermont Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

1731

CHAP. 1167. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward T. Durant.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of Edward T. Durant, late first lieutenant Company B, Thirty -third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[ Private, No. 996.]
Edward T. Durant. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1168. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Thomas J. Winfrey.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Thomas J. Winfrey, late of Company H, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 997. ]
Thomas J. Winfrey. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1169. -An Act Granting a pension to Charles A. Warrick.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles A. Warrick, late of Company E, Third Regiment Nebraska Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 998.]
Charles A. Warrick, Pension.

CHAP. 1170. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Ira J. S. Holmes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ira J. S. Holmes , late of Company G, Fourteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and Company G, Third Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 999.]
Ira J. S. Holmes. Pension increased.

1732

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1171-1175. 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1000. ]
George M. Smith. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1171. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George M. Smith .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George M. Smith, late of Company A, Second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1001. ]
George White. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1172. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George White.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of George White, late of Company K, Second Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is
now receiving . Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3 , 1903.

CHAP. 1173. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to William C. Chatfield.

[Private, No. 1002.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
William C. Chat- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the field .
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of William C. Chatfield , late of Company H , Second

Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved , March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1174. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frederick Journal.

[Private, No. 1003. ]
Frederick Journal. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frederick Journal , late of Company I, Twentythird Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he

is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1175. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph M. Alexander.

[Private, No. 1004. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United
Joseph M. Alexan States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the dePre. nsion increased. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1175-1179. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph M. Alexander, late of Company H, Nineteenth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1733

CHAP. 1176. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin Peale.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin Peale, late of Company G, One hundred and eighteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1005.]
Franklin Peale. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1177. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James M. Cartmill.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James M. Cartmill, late of Companies E and 1, First Regiment Provisional Enrolled Missouri Militia, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

[Private , No. 1006. ] James M. Cartmill. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1178. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to David E. Lawton.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David E. Lawton, late of Company G, Thirty-fifth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1007. ] David E. Lawton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1179.-An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank E. Hills.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank E. Hills , late of Company D , One hundredth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1008. ] Frank E. Hills .
Pension increased.

1734

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1180-1184 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1180. -An Act Granting a pension to William Mennecke.

[Private, No. 1009. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

WPienlsliioanm. Mennecke. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Mennecke, late of Company C, First Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the

rate of twelve dollars per month .

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1010. ]
John Keen . Pension increased.

CHAP. 1181. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Keen.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Keen , late second lieutenant Company K, Sev-

enth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserve Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1182. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Houseal.

[Private, No. 1011. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United

WPielnlsiioanm iHn.cHroeuasseeda.l. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Houseal, late of Company B, Forty-fifth

Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1183. -An Act Granting a pension to Benjamin F. Wilson.

[Private, No. 1012.] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

BPennsjiaomni.n F. Wilson. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin F. Wilson , late second lieutenant Company

G, Ninety-third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a

pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1184. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucy T. Churchill.

[Private, No. 1013. ]
Lucy T. Churchill. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II . CHS . 1184-1188 . 1903 .
laws, the name of Lucy T. Churchill , widow of Charles E. Churchill, late captain Company D, Fifty-eighth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1735

CHAP. 1185. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Isaac J. Nichols.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac J. Nichols , late first lieutenant Company F, Ninety-seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

[Private, No. 1014.] IPseanascioJ.nNiincchroelass.ed.

CHAP. 1186. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Grace Harrington.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Grace Harrington, widow of Henry M. Harrington , late second lieutenant, Seventh Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty- five dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

[Private, No. 1015.] GPreancsieoHnairnrcirnegatsoend..

Approved , March 3 , 1903.

CHAP. 1187. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lott Van Nordstrand. March 3, 1903. [ Private, No. 1016.]
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited Lott Van NordStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the strand. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lott Van Nordstrand , late of Battery M, First Regiment New York Volunteer Light Artillery , and pay him a pension at
the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1188. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton C. Norton .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1017.]
Milton C. Norton. Pension increased.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Milton C. Norton , late of Company A, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Heavy Artillery , and pay him a pension at

the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

1736

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1189-1193 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1189. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to William M. Hattery.

[Private, No. 1018. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
WPeinlsliioanm iMn.crHeaatsteedr.y. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William M. Hattery , late of Company A, Forty-

second Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1019.]
John Mosgrove. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1190. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Mosgrove.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of John Mosgrove , late of Company C, One hundred and forty-sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1191. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Stephen B. Morehouse.

[Private, No. 1020. ] Be it enacted1by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United hoSutseep.hen B. More States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Stephen B. Morehouse, late first lieutenant Com-

pany D, One hundred and twenty - first Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infan-
try, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1192. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Elias Simpson.

[Private, No. 1021. ]
Elias Simpson. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Elias Simpson , late of Company B , Seventh Regi-

ment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1022. ]
John Fullerton. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1193. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Fullerton.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1193-1197. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Fullerton, late second lieutenant Company E, Fourth Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1737

CHAP. 1194. - An Act Granting a pension to Eudora Wells.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eudora Wells , helpless and dependent daughter of Isaac M. Wells , late of Company E, Twenty-first Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1023. ]
Eudora Wells. Pension.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1195. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Robson .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,. That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Robson , late of Company I , Ninety- seventh Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1024. ]
John H. Robson. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1196. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Williams.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Williams, late of Company D, Eighteenth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1025. ]
John C. Williams. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1197. -An Act Granting a pension to Matilda Tunison.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Matilda Tunison , widow of John Tunison , late major, One hundred and thirty-eighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1026. ] Matilda Tunison. Pension.

1738

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS . 1198-1202. 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1027.]
WPielnlsiioanm iHn.crFeraasnecde. .

CHAP. 1198. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. France.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. France, late of Company G, One hundred and forty- third Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1028. ] DPeanvsiidoAn.iBncarledawsiend.

CHAP. 1199. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David A. Baldwin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David A. Baldwin, late first lieutenant Company A, Eighth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1029. ]
William Keith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1200. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Keith .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Keith, late first lieutenant Company F, Fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1201. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William O. Boughton.

[Private, No. 1030. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United toWni.lliam O. Bough- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of William O. Boughton , late of Company B, First

Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP . 1202. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Strong, alias

[Private, No. 1031.] William Clark.

Charles Strong, alias William Clark.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

Pension increased. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1202-1206 . 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Strong, alias William Clark, late of Company D, One hundred and fifteenth Regiment, and Company C, Fortyseventh Regiment, New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1739

CHAP. 1203. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Edward Tattersall .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Edward Tattersall, late of Company C, First Regiment United States Infantry, and Troop F, Fifth Regiment United States Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

March 3, 1903.
[ Private, No. 1032. ]
Edward Tattersall. Pension increased .

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

CHAP. 1204. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Wilson French.

March 3 , 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Wilson French, late captain Company G, Seventeenth Regiment Connecticut Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

[Private, No. 1033.]
Wilson French. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1205. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Carr.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Carr, late of Company H, Fifth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pen-
sion at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 1034. ]
John H. Carr. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1206. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John A. T. McPherson.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United [Private, No. 1035. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the soJno. hn A. T. McPherInterior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John A. T. McPherson, late of the United States ship Fair Play, United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1740

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1207-1211 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1036.] FPreannskiloinniWnicrlelaisaemds..

CHAP. 1207. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Franklin Williams.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Franklin Williams, late of Company G, Kentucky Mounted Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1208. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Milton D. Wells.

[Private, No. 1037. ]
Milton D. Wells. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Milton D. Wells , late first lieutenant and quartermaster, One hundred and twenty - first Regiment Ohio Volunteer

Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1038. ]
Walter A. Porter. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1209. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Walter A. Porter.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Walter A. Porter, late of Company B, Sixty- fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1039.]
Hans A. Grove. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1210. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Hans A. Grove.
Be it enacted by the Senateand House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Hans A. Grove, late of Company D, Third Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and Company H, First Battalion Sixteenth Regiment United States Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private , No. 1040. ]
Martin G. Cole. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1211. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Martin G. Cole.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 1211-1215 . 1903.
laws, the name of Martin G. Cole, late of Company G, First Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1741

CHAP. 1212. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Wheeler.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Wheeler , late of Company H, First Regiment Kentucky Foot Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1041. ] JPoenhsnioH.n iWnhcereelaesred. .

CHAP. 1213. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Daniel R. Lucas.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Daniel R. Lucas, late chaplain Ninety-ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1042. ]
Daniel R. Lucas. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1214. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William Whitlock.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William Whitlock, late first lieutenant Company A, Fifth Regiment Tennessee Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private , No. 1043. ]
William Whitlock. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1215. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to George Skinner.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of George Skinner, late of Company K, Fifty- fourth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1044. ]
George Skinner. Pension increased.

1742

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS . 1216-1220 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1045. ]
Lucien B. Love. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1216. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lucien B. Love.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lucien B. Love, late of Company C, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1046. ]
Mary H. Talcott. Pension.

CHAP. 1217. -An Act Granting a pension to Mary H. Talcott.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Mary H. Talcott, former widow of George N. Macy, late lieutenant- colonel Twentieth Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1047. ]
Louis W. Rowe. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1218. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Louis W. Rowe.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Louis W. Rowe, late of Company C, Sixteenth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1048.]
Minerva Murphy. Pension.

CHAP. 1219. -An Act Granting a pension to Minerva Murphy.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Minerva Murphy, helpless and dependent daughter of Davis Murphy, late of Captain Campbell's company, Third Regiment Illinois Foot Volunteers, war with Mexico , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1049.]
Lewis P. Everett. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1220. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lewis P. Everett.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1220-1224. 1903 .
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lewis P. Everett, late of Company B, Thirtysixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1743

CHAP. 1221.- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph Grennue.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph Grennue, late of Company C, One hundred and thirty-fourth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private , No. 1050. ] JPoesnespihonGriencnrneuaes.ed .

CHAP. 1222. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Frank Stafford.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Frank Stafford, late of Company B, Sixteenth Regiment Kansas Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1051.]
Frank Stafford. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1223. --An Act Granting a pension to Catharine T. R. Mathews.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United [ Private, No. 1052. ]

States

of America in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of

the

Catharine T. Mathews.

R.

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension.

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catharine T. R. Mathews, widow of John R.
Mathews, late chaplain , United States Navy, and pay her a pension at

the rate of twenty dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

CHAP. 1224. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Murphy.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Murphy, late of Company B, First Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

[Private, No. 1053.]
Michael Murphy. Pension increased.

1744

FIFTY -SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1225-1229. 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1225. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Amadon.

[Private, No. 1054.]

John H. Amadon.

Be it enacted by the Senate and Houseof Representatives ofthe United

Pension increased . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John H. Amadon , late of Companies I and , First

Regiment Vermont Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension

at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now

receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1055. ]
John Graham. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1226 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Graham.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of John Graham, late of Company I, Third Regiment

Michigan Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of

twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 8, 1903. [Private, No. 1056. ]
John H. Smith. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1227. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John H. Smith .
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, Thatthe Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John H. Smith, late of Company G, Thirty-eight Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1228. --An Act Granting a pension to Leighton M. Perveil, alias Charles

H. Hunt.

[Private, No. 1057.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Leighton M. Perveil, States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the aliPaesnCshiaornl.es H. Hunt . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leighton M. Perveil, alias Charles H. Hunt , late of Company K, Twenty-third Regiment United States Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3 , 1903.
[Private, No. 1058.]
Jeffrey Hufford, Pension increased.

CHAP. 1229. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Jeffrey Hufford.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Jeffrey Hufford , late of Company M, Second Regi-

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II . CHS. 1229-1233 . 1903 .
ment Pennsylvania Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

1745

CHAP. 1230. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Collahan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1059. ]
John C. Collahan. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Collahan , late first lieutenant Company A, One hundredth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

CHAP. 1231. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Sanders W. Johnston. March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1060. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

States

of America

in

Congress

assembled,

That

the

Secretary

of

the

Sanders ston.

W.

John-

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Sanders W. Johnston, late captain Company G, First Regiment Ohio Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved , March 3, 1903 .

CHAP. 1232. -An Act Granting a pension to Isaac B. Price.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Isaac B. Price, late of Company M, First Regiment Alabama Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1061. ] Isaac B. Price. Pension.

CHAP. 1233. --An Act Granting a pension to Laban McGahan.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Laban McGahan, late of the Fourth Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved , March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1062. ]
Laban McGahan. Pension.

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -33

1746

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1234-1238. 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1234. -An Act Granting a pension to Samuel H. Montanye.

[Private, No. 1063. ]

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

taSnayem.uel H. Mon- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension .

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Samuel H. Montanye, late a private of United States

Voltigeurs , war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1235. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to James L. Davenport,

[Private, No. 1064. ] alias Dexter Davis.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United alJiaasmDeesxLt.eDraDvaevnipso.rt , States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Pension increased. Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James L. Davenport, alias Dexter Davis, late unassigned, Twenty - fourth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1065. ]

CHAP. 1236. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard S. Howarth.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United PReincshiaorndsincHroewaaserdt.h. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Richard S. Howarth, late of Company D, Ninety-

seventh Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1237. -An Act Granting a pension to Lucinda Lawrence.

[Private, No. 1066. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United

LPeuncsiinodna. Lawrence. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension faws, the name of Lucinda Lawrence, helpless and dependent daughter of Albert A. Lawrence, late of Company M, First Regiment Michigan

Volunteer Engineers and Mechanics, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1067. ]
Austin P. Merrell. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1238. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Austin P. Merrell.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1238-1242. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Austin P. Merrell, late of Company E, Battalion Mississippi Volunteers, war with Mexico, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1747

CHAP. 1239. - An Act To amend the Act entitled "An Act granting an increase
of pension to Mary La Tourrette Stotsenburg, " approved June second, nineteen hundred .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1068. ]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Mary La Tourrette
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Act entitled " An Act Stotsenburg. 31, p. 1576,
granting an increase of pension to Mary La Tourrette Stotsenburg," amended. Pension increased .
approved June second, nineteen hundred, be, and the same is hereby, amended so as to read as follows : That the Secretary of the Interior
be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension
roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary L. Stotsenburg, widow of John M. Stotsenburg, late
colonel First Regiment Nebraska Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain ,
and pay her a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of
that she is now receiving, and two dollars per month additional on
account of each of the minor children of said John M. Stotsenburg until they reach the age of sixteen years.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1240. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to William F. Ritchie.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William F. Ritchie, late of Company F, Eighty-third Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903 .
[Private, No. 1069. ]
William F. Ritchie. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1241. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Patrick Carney.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Patrick Carney, late of Company K, Tenth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1070.]
Patrick Carney. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1242. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza M. Hutchinson . March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1071. ] Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United Eliza M. HutchinStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the son. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

1748

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS. 1242-1246. 1903.

laws, the name of Eliza M. Hutchinson , widow of Joseph H. Hutchinson , late of Company A, Second Regiment Nebraska Volunteer Cav-

alry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in

Proviso. Increase to cease on lieu of that she is now receiving: Provided, however, That in the case of

death of child .

the death of the helpless child Grace A. Hutchinson , on whose account

the pension of Eliza M. Hutchinson is increased, the pension of said Eliza M. Hutchinson shall continue only at the rate of eight dollars

per month from and after the date of death of said helpless child.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1072. ] PAelnosnizoonS.inBcorewadseend ..

CHAP. 1243. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alonzo S. Bowden.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alonzo S. Bowden , late of Company B, Second Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private , No. 1073.]
Lymus Wallace. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1244. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Lymus Wallace.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he hereby is, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Lymus Wallace, late of United States steamships Clara Dolson, General Lyon, and W. H. Brown , United States Navy, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1074. ]
Ella F. Shandrew. Pension.

CHAP. 1245. -An Act Granting a pension to Ella F. Shandrew.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ella F. Shandrew, widow of John C. Shandrew, late colonel Fifteenth Regiment Minnesota Volunteer Infantry , war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1246. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Harrison.

[Private, No. 1075. ] James Harrison. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Harrison , late of Company C, Forty- third

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1246-1250. 1903.
Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1749

CHAP. 1247. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Eliza B. Abbott.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Eliza B. Abbott, widow of William S. M. Abbott,

[Private, No. 1076. ]
Eliza B. Abbott. Pension increased.

late second lieutenant Company G, Second Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .

Approved , March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1248. -An Act Granting a pension to Catherine Rayel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine Rayel, dependent mother of John E. Rayel, late of Company I , Third Regiment Missouri Volunteer Infantry, war with Spain, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1077.]
Catherine Rayel. Pension.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1249. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William W. Downs.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William W. Downs, late of Company A, Twelfth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and Company C, Twenty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1078. ]
William W. Downs. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1250. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Leroy N. Buell.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be , and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Leroy N. Buell, late of Company I , Forty-eighth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1079.]
Leroy N. Buell. Pension increased.

1750

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II . CHS. 1251-1255 . 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1080.] PFreenesliionngiHn.crAemasiecdk. .

CHAP. 1251. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Freeling H. Amick.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Freeling H. Amick, late of Company B, Fourth

Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the

rate of seventeen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1081. ]
Ellen Johnson. Pension .

CHAP. 1252. -An Act Granting a pension to Ellen Johnson.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Ellen Johnson , widow of Edmond Johnson, late of Company B, Fifty - second Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1253. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. F. Gilmore.

[Private, No. 1082. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
MPeanrsyioAn. iFn.cGrielamsoerde. . States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. F. Gilmore , widow of John L. Gilmore,

late captain Company D, Third Regiment Kentucky Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1254. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Albert W. Thompson.

[Private, No. 1083. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United
soAnl.bert W. Thomp- States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws , the name of Albert W. Thompson , late of Company G, One hun-

dred and forty -seventh Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and

pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of

that he is now receiving .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1084. ]
Anton Sauthoff. Pension.

CHAP. 1255. - An Act Granting a pension to Anton Sauthoff.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1255-1259. 1903.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws , the name of Anton Sauthoff, late of Company D, Cape Girardeau Battalion Missouri Home Guards, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1751

CHAP. 1256. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Benjamin F. Hughes. March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1085. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the BPeennjsaimoinniFn.cHreuagsheeds. . Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Benjamin F. Hughes , late of Company F, Third Regiment West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

CHAP. 1257. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Fannie T. Fisher.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Fannie T. Fisher, widow of Alfred A. Fisher, late captain, Seventh Regiment Florida Volunteers, Florida Indian war, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1086. ]
Fannie T. Fisher. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1258. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Brown.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Brown, late of Company G, Fourth Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

[Private, No. 1087. ]
John Brown. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1259. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Michael Howe.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Michael Howe, late of Company G, Twentieth Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

[Private , No. 1088. ] Michael Howe.
Pension increased.

1752

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1260-1264.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1089. ]
Collins W. Wight. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1260. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to Collins W. Wight.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Collins W. Wight, late of Company B, First Regiment New Hampshire Volunteer Heavy Artillery, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved , March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1261. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John C. Sautter.

[Private, No. 1090.]
John C. Sautter. Pension increased .

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John C. Sautter, late of Company K, Fifth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1262. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Richard G. Hanscom.

[Private, No. 1091. ] Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United
PReincshiaornd Gi.ncHraenassecdo.m. States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension
laws, the name of Richard G. Hanscom, late of Company I , Second

Regiment Wisconsin Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty -four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1263. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Burke.

[Private, No. 1092. ]
John Burke. Pension increased.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Burke, of Company E, Twenty-seventh Regi-

ment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. Private, No. 1093. ]
OliverW. Kile. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1264. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Oliver W. Kile.
Be it enactedbythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Oliver W. Kile , late of Company B, Ninth Regi-

FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II. CHS. 1264-1268 . 1903.
ment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

1753

CHAP. 1265. --An Act Granting a pension to Florence M. Stout.
Be it enactedby the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Florence M. Stout, widow of William H. B. Stout,

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1094. ] Florence M. Stout. Pension .

late second lieutenant Company B, First Battalion Nebraska Veteran Volunteer Cavalry, and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

CHAP . 1266. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to William H. Trites.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of William H. Trites, late captain of Company C, Twenty-ninth Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .

[Private, No. 1095. ] William H. Trites. Pension increased.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1267. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Alexander T. Sullin- March 3, 1903.

ger, alias Alexander Patillo.

[Private, No. 1096.]

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United Alexander T. SullinStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the ger, alias Alexander Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the PatPielnlsoi. on increased. pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Alexander T. Sullinger, alias Alexander Patillo , late of Captain Holliday's company , First Regiment Illinois Mounted Vol-
unteers, Black Hawk Indian war, and pay him a pension at the rate of sixteen dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1268. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to James P. Foster.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of  the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James P. Foster, late lieutenant- colonel One hundred and twenty - eighth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of forty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1097. ] James P. Foster. Pension increased.

1754

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II . CHS . 1269-1273 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1098.]
John Bougher. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1269. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to John Bougher.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Bougher, late of Company F, Fortieth Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1099. ]
Martha Maddox. Pension .

CHAP. 1270. --An Act Granting a pension to Martha Maddox.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Martha Maddox , widow of Samuel Maddox , late of Company G, One hundred and sixteenth Regiment United States Colored Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1100. ]
James T. Price. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1271. - An Act Granting an increase of pension to James T. Price.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James T. Price , late of Company E, Sixteenth Regi-

ment United States Infantry, war with Mexico , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1101. ]
Caroline Schaefer. Pension.

CHAP. 1272. - An Act Granting a pension to Caroline Schaefer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Caroline Schaefer, widow of Vincent Schaefer, late of Company E, First Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Infantry , and pay

her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month. Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private , No. 1102. ] PAeungsuisotnusinLc.rKeiadsedde.r.

CHAP. 1273. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Augustus L. Kidder.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Augustus L. Kidder, late of Company B, Fourth

Regiment Iowa Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903 .

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1274-1278 . 1903.

1755

CHAP. 1274. -AnAct Granting an increase of pension to Joanna Glazer.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joanna Glazer, widow of Peter Glazer, late of Company E, Seventy-eighth Regiment, and Company K, One hundred and second Regiment, New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1103. ]
Joanna Glazer. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1275. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Robert A. Tracy.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Robert A. Tracy, late of Company A, First Regiment Kansas Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1104. ]
Robert A. Tracy. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1276 .---An Act Granting an increase of pension to James Flanagan .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of James Flanagan, late of Company I, One hundred and twenty-fourth Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1105. ]
James Flanagan. Pension increased .

CHAP. 1277. --An Act Granting a pension to Kathinka Sichel.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Kathinka Sichel, widow of Maurice Sichel , late regimental quartermaster, Fifty-second Regiment New York Volunteer Infantry, and pay her a pension at the rate of eight dollars per month.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1106. ]
Kathinka Sichel. Pension.

CHAP. 1278. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Christopher G. Divers.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United [Private, No. 1107. ] States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the DiCvehrrsi. stopher G. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased .
pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Christopher G. Divers, late of Company H, Twenty-seventh Regiment Missouri Volunteer Mounted Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

1756

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS . II. CHS. 1279-1283 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1108.]
Charles Shirar. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1279. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Charles Shirar.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Charles Shirar, late of Company A, Forty- sixth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twenty-four dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private , No. 1109.]
John Haynes. Pension.

CHAP. 1280. -An Act Granting a pension to John Haynes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of John Haynes, late nurse, Medical Department, United States Volunteers, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1110.]
David Flynn. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1281. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to David Flynn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of David Flynn, late of Company H, Third Regiment United States Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1282. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Newton Thayer.

[Private, No. 1111. ]
Newton Thayer. Pension increased.

Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Newton Thayer, late first lieutenant Company C, Tenth Regiment Ohio Volunteer Cavalry , and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1112. ]
Joseph W. Fox. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1283. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Joseph W. Fox.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll , subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Joseph W. Fox, late first lieutenant Company H, Thirteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pen-

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS . II . CHS . 1283-1287 . 1903 .
sion at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903 .

1757

CHAP. 1284. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Clara E. Smith.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1113. ] Clara E. Smith. Pension increased.

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Clara E. Smith, widow of Robert C. Smith , late of the United States Marine Corps , United States Navy , and pay her a

pension at the rate of twenty- four dollars per month in lieu of that she Proviso.
is now receiving : Provided, however, That in the case of the death of Increase to cease on

the helpless child, Henry G. Smith , on whose account the pension of death of child. Clara E. Smith is increased , the pension of said Clara E. Smith shall

continue only at the rate of twelve dollars per month from and after the death of said helpless child.

Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903. CHAP. 1285. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Abraham W. Huffman.
[Private, No. 1114. ]
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United Abraham W. HuffStates of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the man. Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the Pension increased.
pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Abraham W. Huffman, late of Company K, Thirteenth Regiment Indiana Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of fifty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

CHAP. 1286. - An Act Granting a pension to Philander H. Graves.

March 3, 1903.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Philander H. Graves, late of Company A, Eightyeighth Regiment Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and pay him a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

[ Private, No. 1115. ] PPheinlsaionnde. r H. Graves.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1287. - An Act Granting a pension to Catherine McGuinn.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Catherine McGuinn, widow of Edward J. McGuinn , late of United States steamships New Hampshire, Bibb, and Vermont, United States Navy, and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1116.]
CPaetnhseiroinn. e McGuinn.

Approved, March 3, 1903.

1758

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS. SESS. II. CHS. 1288-1292 . 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1117.]
Adam Stuber. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1288. -- An Act Granting an increase of pension to Adam Stuber.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Adam Stuber, late of Company I , Fifteenth Regiment United States Infantry, war with Mexico, and captain Company M, Eleventh Regiment Illinois Volunteer Cavalry, and pay him a pension at the rate of thirty dollars per month in lieu of that he is now receiving .
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1289. --An Act Granting an increase of pension to Emily Lawrence Reed.

[Private, No. 1118. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United

ReEemdi. ly Lawrence States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the

Pension increased . Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the

pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension

laws, the name of Emily Lawrence Reed , widow of Walter Reed, late

major and surgeon, United States Army, and pay her a pension at the

rate of one hundred and twenty- five dollars per month in lieu of that

she is now receiving , in special recognition of the eminent services of

said Walter Reed in discovering the means of preventing as well as the

cause and method of the transmission and propagation of yellow fever.

Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1119.]
T. A. Woodress. Payment to.

CHAP. 1290. -An Act For the relief of T. A. Woodress.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House ofRepresentatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to pay T. A. Woodress, of Grundy County , Missouri , the sum of one hundred and thirty-five dollars and sixty cents, to cover expenses and transportation paid out by said T. A. Woodress, to convey his son, A. C. Woodress, late a private of the Third United States Cavalry , in the Spanish war, from Jefferson Barracks, Missouri , to the insane asylum at Saint Joseph, Missouri, and thence back to Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, including the cost of attendants, and a sum sufficient to pay said amount is hereby appropriated .
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1120. ]
Anna O. Brush. Pension.

CHAP. 1291. --An Act Granting a pension to Anna O. Brush.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Anna O. Brush , widow of Alfred I. Brush, late of Company B, Twelfth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of twelve dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1121.]
William Leech. Payment to.

CHAP. 1292. -An Act For the relief of William Leech.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to pay to William Leech the

FIFTY-SEVENTH CONGRESS . SESS. II. CHS. 1292-1296 . 1903.
sum of two thousand five hundred dollars, as full compensation for permanent injuries received by the said Leech in falling in the elevator shaft of the Treasury building, without any contributary negligence and while in discharge of his official duties, on the twenty-ninth day of March, eighteen hundred and ninety-three ; and an amount sufficient to pay the same is hereby appropriated , out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

1759

CHAP. 1293. -An Act For the relief of John D. Chadwick.
Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to pay, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to John D. Chadwick, of Madison County, Alabama, the sum of ninety-seven dollars and four cents to pay and discharge in full an account held by him against the Government of the United States for ninety- seven dollars and four cents, arising from certain transactions in the administration of justice in the Federal courts at Huntsville , Alabama.
Approved, March 3, 1903.

March 3, 1903. [Private, No. 1122.]
John D. Chadwick. Payment to.

CHAP. 1294. -An Act For the relief of McClure and Willbanks.

March 3, 1903.

[Private, No. 1123. ] Be it enacted bythe Senate and House of Representatives oftheUnited States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the baMnckCsl.ure and WillTreasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay, out of Payment to. any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to McClure

and Willbanks, livery- stable keepers at Toccoa, Georgia, one hundred dollars , the value of a horse hired to internal revenue officers and

killed by illicit distillers in August, nineteen hundred .

Approved, March 3, 1903.

CHAP. 1295. -An Act Granting an increase of pension to Mary A. Talbott.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Mary A. Talbott, widow of Nicholas B. Talbott, late second lieutenant Company H, Fifth Regiment Maryland Volunteer Infantry , and pay her a pension at the rate of fifteen dollars per month in lieu of that she is now receiving.
Approved, March 3 , 1903.

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1124.]
Mary A Talbott. Pension increased.

CHAP. 1296. -An Act Granting a pension to Jerome W. Turner.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives ofthe United States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to place on the pension roll, subject to the provisions and limitations of the pension laws, the name of Jerome W. Turner, late first lieutenant and adjutant Thirtieth Regiment Michigan Volunteer Infantry , and pay him a pension at the rate of seventeen dollars per month.
Approved, March 3 , 1903 .

March 3, 1903.
[Private, No. 1125.]
Jerome W. Turner. Pension

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF THE
TWO HOUSES OF CONGRESS .
1901-1903 .

VOL XXXII , PT 2--34

1761

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS . FIRST SESSION, FIFTY - SEVENTH CONGRESS .

HOLIDAY RECESS , 1901-1902.

December 12, 1901.

Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That when the two Houses adjourn on Thursday, December nineteenth , they stand adjourned until twelve o'clock Meridian , Monday, January sixth, nineteen hundred and two.
Passed December 12, 1901.

Holiday recess.

WILLIAM MCKINLEY. MEMORIAL ADDRESS BY JOHN HAY.

January 16, 1902.

Whereas the melancholy event of the violent and tragic death of

William McKinley, late President of the United States, having

occurred during the recess of Congress, and the two Houses sharing

in the general grief and desiring to manifest their sensibility upon the

occasion of the public bereavement: Therefore, be it

Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That MPermesoirdieanlt aMdcdKrienssletoy the two Houses of Congress will assemble in the Hall of the House be delivered by the of Representatives on a day and hour fixed and announced by the HCoonngr. Jesosh.n Haybefore

joint committee, to wit: Thursday, February twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and two, and that, in the presence of the two Houses there

assembled, an address upon the life and character of William McKin-

ley, late President of the United States, be pronounced by Honora-

ble John Hay, and that the President of the Senate pro tempore and the

Speaker of the House of Representatives be requested to invite the President and ex-President of the United States , ex Vice-Presidents ,

the heads of the several Departments, the judges of the Supreme

Court, the representatives of the foreign Governments, the governors

of the several States , the Lieutenant- General of the Army and the

Admiral of the Navy, and such officers of the Army and Navy as have

received the thanks of Congress who may then be at the seat of Gov-

ernment, to be present on the occasion , and such others as may be

suggested by the executive committee.

Resolved,

That the President of the United

States be

requested

to Copy of resolutions to Mrs. Ida S. McKin-

transmit a copy of these resolutions to Mrs. Ida S. McKinley, and to ley.

assure her of the profound sympathy of the two Houses of Congress

for her deep personal affliction , and of their sincere condolence for the late national bereavement.

Passed January 16 , 1902.

LAKE SUPERIOR IRON DEPOSITS.

February 1, 1902.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That deRpeospiotrst, oLnakIeroSnuopre-e
there be printed at the Government Printing Office four thousand Vriaonr rHeigsieo.n," by C. R. copies, in pamphlet form, of the report on the " Iron ore deposits of Printing ordered.
1763

1764

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .
the Lake Superior region, " by C. R. Van Hise , being pages three hundred and five to four hundred and thirty- four of Part Two of the Twenty-first Annual Report of the United States Geological Survey, one thousand copies for the use of the Senate , two thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and one thousand for distribution by the Geological Survey.
Passed February 1 , 1902 .

February 1, 1902.

REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS.

Report of Librarian

of Congress .

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That

Printing ordered. there be printed and bound in cloth five thousand five hundred copies

of the report of the Librarian of Congress for nineteen hundred and

one ; five hundred copies for the use of the Senate , one thousand five

hundred copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and three

thousand five hundred copies for the use of the Library of Congress.

Passed February 1 , 1902.

February 7, 1902.

TEXAS OIL FIELDS .

Geological Survey. Bulletin on Texas Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That

oilAdadnidtigoansaflields. there be printed at the Government Printing Office four thousand copies

ordered printed .

additional copies of Bulletin Numbered One hundred and eighty-four

of the Geological Survey, lately issued , entitled " Oil and Gas Fields

of the Western Interior and Northern Texas Coal Measures and of the

Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary of the Western Gulf Coast, " by George I. Adams, one thousand for the use of the Senate , two thousand for the

use of the House, and one thousand for free distribution by the Geological Survey,

Passed February 7 , 1902.

February 11, 1902.

URGENT DEFICIENCIES APPROPRIATION BILL.

Error in engrossing the urgent deficien- Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That bciilelscoarprpecrtoepdr. iation the Clerk of the House of Representatives be directed in the enroll-
ment of the bill ( H. R. 9315 ,) " An Act making appropriations to
supply urgent deficiencies in the appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and two, and for prior years, and for other purposes " to insert the word thirteenth on page nine in line nine, in lieu of the word thirtieth.

Passed February 11 , 1902 .

February 13, 1902.

VOLUNTEER SOLDIERS' HOME REPORT.

Report on the National Home for Dis- Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That
abled Volunteer Sol- there be printed and bound in cloth of the Report of the Board of diAedrsd.itional copies Managers of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, in

ordered printed.

addition to the usual number, five hundred copies of the report proper,

ive hundred copies of the report of the Assistant Inspector- General on

the State Homes, and one hundred and fifty copies of the record of members , for the use of the House.

Passed February 13 , 1902.

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

1765

EXECUTION OF DEEDS IN THE PHILIPPINES, ETC.

February 17, 1902.

Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring), That NoR.e5t8u1r4nroefquHeosutseedb. ill

the President be requested

to

return to the

House of

Representatives Execution of deeds inthe Philippines, etc.

the bill (H. R. 5814) " to provide for the execution in the Philippine

Islands and in Porto Rico of deeds of land situate in the District of

Columbia. "

Passed February 17, 1902.

GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS.

March 7, 1902.

Issue ofGovernment Resolvedbythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That publications to Conthe Superintendent of Public Documents be, and he hereby is , author- gress authorized . ized and directed to issue to the Secretary of the United States Senate
and the Clerk of the House of Representatives such Government publications as they may find from time to time to be necessary for the use of the Senate and the House of Representatives respectively.
Passed March 7, 1902.

LAWS OF PORTO RICO .

March 7, 1902.

Report of the ComResolved bythe Senate ( the House of Representatives concurring) , That mission to Revise and

there be printed three thousand five hundred copies of the report of Compile the Laws of

the Commission to Revise and Compile the Laws of Porto Rico, sent Printing ordered.

to Congress by the Attorney-General, of which one thousand five hun-

dred copies shall be for the use of the Department of Justice, five hundred for the use of the Senate, and one thousand five hundred for
the use of the House of Representatives : Provided, That of the one

Proviso. Distribution by De-

thousand five hundred copies for the use of the Department of Justice partment of Justice.

one thousand shall be held by said Department for distribution in such

a manner as the Commission to Revise and Compile the Laws of Porto

Rico may indicate.

Passed March 7, 1902.

SCHLEY COURT OF INQUIRY.

March 7, 1902.

Proceedings of the Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That Schley Court of Inthere be printed three thousand five hundred copies of the proceed- quPirriyn, teitnc.g ordered . ings of the Schley Court of Inquiry, together with all papers officially before the President with Admiral Schley's appeal and the Presi-
dent's action thereon and also with a subject and topical index of the whole publication ; and of which one thousand copies shall be for the use of the Senate , two thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives , and five hundred copies for the use of the Navy Department.
Passed March 7, 1902.

GAZETTEER OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

March 7, 1902.

Gazetteer of the Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring), That Philippine Islands. there be printed and bound in cloth four thousand copies of the Gazet- Printing ordered.
teer of the Philippine Islands, one thousand copies for the use of the
Senate, two thousand for the use of the House of Representatives , and
one thousand copies for the use of the War Department. Passed March 7, 1902.

1766

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

March 14, 1902.

EDWARD KERSHNER.

Edward Kershner. Returnofbillforthe Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That relief of, requested . the President be requested to return to the House of Representatives
the bill (H. R. 5224) " An Act providing for the relief of Edward Kershner. "
Passed March 14, 1902.

March 18, 1902.

" REVIEW OF THE WORLD'S COMMERCE, " ETC.

" Review of the

World's Commerce." Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) . That

Commercial Rela- there be printed nineteen thousand copies of the general summary

tions of the United

States.

entitled " Review of the World's Commerce , " for the year nineteen

Printing ordered. hundred and one, of which three thousand shall be for the use of the

Senate, six thousand for the use of the House of Representatives, and ten thousand for the use of the Department of State ; and eleven thousand copies of Commercial Relations of the United States for the year

nineteen hundred and one , including the general summary, of which two thousand shall be for the use of the Senate, four thousand for the

use of the House of Representatives , and five thousand for the use of the Department of State.
Passed March 18, 1902 .

March 19, 1902.

INTEROCEANIC CANALS .

Report on Inter-

oceanic Canals.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring). That

Printing ordered . there be printed three thousand copies of Senate Report Numbered

One, from the Committee on Interoceanic Canals, one thousand for the use of the Senate and two thousand for the use of the House of

Representatives.

Passed March 19 , 1902.

April 1 , 1902.

PROMOTION OF ANATOMICAL SCIENCE, ETC.

Return of bill to prevent desecration Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That of graves in the Dis- t66he President be requested to return to the Senate the bill (S. 2291 ) tqruiecstteofd. Columbia re- For the promotion of anatomical science and to prevent the desecra-
tion of graves in the District of Columbia. "
Passed April 1 , 1902 .

April 4, 1902.

ROBERT S. WOODBURY.

Robert S. Wood-

bury.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring), That

bilRleotfu,rrnequoefstpeedn.sion the President be requested to return to the Senate the bill (S. 3910 ) " Granting an increase of pension to Robert S. Woodbury. "

Passed April 4, 1902 .

April 4, 1902.

ABBIE GEORGE.

Abbie George. Return of pension Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That ball of, requested . the President be requested to return to the Senate the bill (S. 1872)
" Granting an increase of pension to Abbie George. '
Passed April 4 , 1902 .

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

1767

GENERAL WILLIAM S. ROSECRANS .

April 4, 1902.

General William S. Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That Rosecrans. there be appointed a committee by the President pro tempore of the edComtomitattteeenadppocienrte-Senate and the Speaker of the House to attend the ceremonies incident monies transferring to the transfer of the remains of General William S. Rosecrans from remains of.
California to the cemetery at Arlington , Virginia, said committee to be a joint committee of the two Houses. "
In compliance with the foregoing the Speaker appointed Mr. Hepburn, Mr. Grosvenor , Mr. Loud, Mr. Steele, Mr. Washington Gardner, Mr. Lessler, Mr. Elliott, Mr. Champ Clark, Mr. Cummings, and Mr. George W. Taylor, as the committee on the part of the House. The President pro tempore appointed Mr. Foraker, Mr. Spooner, Mr. Proctor, Mr. Bate, and Mr. Pettus, as the committee on the part of the Senate.
Passed April 4, 1902 .

CENTRAL ARIZONA RAILWAY COMPANY.

April 12, 1902.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That RaCielnwtaryalCoAmrpiaznyo.na the President be requested to return to the Senate the bill (S. 4363) Return of bill re-
quested. "Granting the Central Arizona Railway Company a right of way for railroad purposes through the San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserve. "
Passed April 12 , 1902 .

HANNAH T. KNOWLES.

April 12, 1902.

Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring), That HReatnunranhTo.fKnpoewnslieosn, the President be requested to return to the House of Representatives bill of , requested. the bill (H. R. 11418) " An Act to increase pension of Hannah T. Knowles. "
Passed April 12 , 1902 .

REPORT OF THE GOVERNOR OF OKLAHOMA.

April 24, 1902.

Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senateconcurring), That erRneoproorftOokflatheomgao.v the Public Printer be, and he is hereby , authorized and directed to Printing ordered . print five thousand additional copies of the report of the governor of Oklahoma for nineteen hundred and one , and to deliver the same to the Department of the Interior.
Passed April 24, 1902 .

LAND DECISIONS AND PENSION DECISIONS.

May 10, 1902.

Land Decisions and Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That Pension Decisions. the Public Printer be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to Printing ordered .
print from stereotype plates and to bind two hundred copies each of volume ten and volumes twenty to thirty-one inclusive, Land
Decisions, and volumes ten and eleven , Pension Decisions, for distri-
bution and sale by the Secretary of the Interior.
Passed May 10 , 1902 .

1768

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

May 10, 1902.

IRRIGATION INVESTIGATIONS IN CALIFORNIA.

California irrigation

bulletin .

Resolved by the Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) . That

Printing ordered. there be printed three thousand two hundred additional copies of the

bulletin entitled " Irrigation Investigations in California , Bulletin

Numbered One hundred, United States Department of Agriculture ,

Office of Experiment Stations, nineteen hundred and one ", of which three thousand copies shall be for the use of the Department of Agri-

culture and two hundred copies for the use of the Senate.

Passed May 10 , 1902 .

May 10, 1902 .

REVISED COURSE OF STUDY FOR INDIAN SCHOOLS .

Revised Course of study for Indian Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That Schools.
Printing ordered . there be printed and bound in cloth six thousand copies of the revised Course of Study for Indian Schools ; one thousand five hundred for
the use of the Senate, three thousand for the use of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and one thousand five hundred for the use of the superintendent of Indian schools.
Passed May 10 , 1902 .

May 10, 1902.

CORRESPONDENCE OF JEFFERSON, MADISON, AND MONROE.

Calendars of Correspondence of Jeffer- Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That son , MonroeM.adison, and there be printed and bound in cloth four thousand copies of each of
Printing ordered . the following bulletins of the Bureau of Rolls and Library of the
Department of State, namely : Calendars of the Correspondence of Thomas Jefferson , James Madison, and James Monroe ; one thousand
copies for the use of the Senate, two thousand copies for the use of
the House of Representatives , and one thousand copies for distribution
by the Department of State.
Passed May 10, 1902.

May 12, 1902.

SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN REGION.

Southern Appala-

chian region.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That

rivReerpso, rettc.o, nof. forests, there be printed ten thousand copies of Senate Document Numbered Printing ordered. Eighty-four, being a message from the President of the United States

transmitting a report of the Secretary of Agriculture in relation to the

forests, rivers, and mountains of the Southern Appalachian region ,

of which one thousand five hundred copies shall be for the use of the

Senate, three thousand copies for the use of the House of Representa-

tives , and five thousand five hundred copies for the use of the United

States Department of Agriculture.

Passed May 12 , 1902 .

May 13, 1902.

THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE .

Louisiana purchase, State papers, etc., on. Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That
Printing ordered. there be published and bound six thousand copies of the State papers ,
and all correspondence bearing upon the purchase of the territory of Louisiana by the United States, including the treaty of purchase ; four
thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives and two thousand for the use of the Senate.
Passed May 13 , 1902 .

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

1769

REPORT OF COMMISSION TO THE FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES.

May 13, 1902.

Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring), That CoAmnmniusaslionreptoort thoef there be printed three thousand five hundred additional copies of the Five Civilized Tribes. annual report of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes to the Printing ordered. Secretary of the Interior for the fiscal year ended June thirtieth , nine-
teen hundred and one, one thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, five hundred copies for the use of the Senate, and two thousand copies for the use of the Department of the Interior.
Passed May 13, 1902.

REPORT OF FIRST ASSISTANT POSTMASTER-GENERAL.

May 13, 1902.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That siRsteapnotrt oPfosFtimrsatsteArsthere be printed twenty- five thousand copies of so much of the First GeOnredrearle. d printed Assistant Postmaster- General's Report for nineteen hundred-nineteen hundred and one as relates to rural free -delivery service ; ten thousand copies for the use of the Post-Office Department, ten thousand for the use of the House of Representatives, and five thousand copies for the use of the Senate.
Passed May 13, 1902.

JEFFERSON'S "MORALS OF JESUS OF NAZARETH. "

May 13, 1902 .

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senateconcurring) , That ofJeJfefseurssoofn'Nsaz"aMroertahl,"s

there

be

printed and

bound, by

photolithographic

process ,

with

an with introduction by Dr. Cyrus Adler.

introduction of not to exceed twenty-five pages, to be prepared by Ordered printed.

Dr. Cyrus Adler, Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution , for the use

of Congress, nine thousand copies of Thomas Jefferson's " Morals of

Jesus of Nazareth " , as the same appears in the National Museum ,

three thousand copies for the use of the Senate, and six thousand copies for the use of the House.

Passed May 13 , 1902.

REPORT ON GEOLOGY, ETC. , BLACK HILLS.

May 13, 1902.

Resolved bythe House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That etcR.e,pBolratcoknHilgleso.logy, there be printed one thousand copies of the Preliminary Description Ordered printed. of the Geological and Water Resources of the Southern Half of the Black Hills and adjoining regions in South Dakota and Wyoming, recently prepared by Nelson Horatio Darton , under the direction of the United States Geological Survey, five hundred copies for use of the House, two hundred and fifty copies for use of the Senate, and two hundred and fifty copies for use of the Secretary of the Interior.
Passed May 13 , 1902.

PRODUCTION OF PRECIOUS METALS.

May 14, 1902.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That meRteaplosr. t on precious there be six thousand additional copies of the report of the Director Additional copies.
of the Mint on the production of the precious metals for the calendar year nineteen hundred, bound in cloth and wrapped ; two thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, one thousand for the use of the Senate, and three thousand copies for the use of the Director of the Mint.

1770

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

Report of Director of

the Mint.

Resolved, That there also be printed eight thousand additional copies

orAddedrietdipornianltecdo. pies of the report of the Director of the Mint covering the operations of the Mints and assay offices of the United States for the fiscal year

ended June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and one, to be bound in cloth

and wrapped; three thousand copies for the use of the House of Rep

resentatives, two thousand for the use of the Senate , and three thousand for the use of the Director of the Mint.

Passed May 14, 1902 .

May 22, 1902.

NATIONAL SANITARIUM , HOT SPRINGS, SOUTH DAKOTA.

Hot Springs Sanita-

rium.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring), That

bilElrcrorrreicntendg. rossing the Committee on Enrolled Bills , in the enrollment of the bill (S. 593)

For the establishment, control, operation, and maintenance of a

National Sanitarium of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer

Soldiers at Hot Springs, in the State of South Dakota, " are hereby authorized to strike out the words Branch Home " from line 12 , page 1, and insert in lieu thereof the word Sanitarium ".

Passed May 22, 1902.

May 26, 1902.

APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

Agricultural appro-

priation bill.

Resolved bythe House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That

coErrrercotreidn. engrossing the Committee on Enrolled Bills , in the enrollment of the bill ( H. R. 13895 ) "An Act making appropriations for the Department of Agricul

ture for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , nineteen hundred and

three," are hereby authorized to strike out the word " forty " from

line twenty- four, page forty-three, and insert in lieu thereof the words

"thirty-seven ".

Passed May 26 , 1902 .

May 29, 1902.

BRITISH SHIP FOSCOLIA.

British ship Fosco-

lia.

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That

Return of bill for the President be requested to return to the Senate the bill ( S. 173) otfh,ererqeluieesfteodf. owners For the relief of the owners of the British ship Foscolia and cargo ",

the same matter having been included in the " Omnibus Claims Bill "

(H. R. 8587 ), approved by the President May 27th, 1902.

Passed May 29, 1902 .

May 29, 1902.

ARMY APPROPRIATIONS BILL.

Conference committee on the army ap- Resolved by the Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) . That propriations bill. a committee consisting of three Senators be appointed by the Presid
ing Officer of the Senate to meet with a committee of like number to be
appointed by the House of Representatives to confer upon the matter of the message of the House of Representatives on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses on the amendments of the Senate to the bill
(H. R. 12804) entitled " An Act making appropriations for the support of the Army for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and three. "
In compliance with the foregoing the Presiding Officer appointed as said committee on the part of the Senate Mr Spooner, Mr Proctor, and Mr Pettus.
The Speaker announced the appointment of Mr Dalzell, Mr Cannon, and Mr Richardson of Tennessee, members of the committee on the part of the House .
Passed May 29, 1902.

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

1771

THANKS OF CONGRESS TO HON. JOHN HAY.

June 3, 1902.

Thanks of Congress Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring), That to Hon. John Hay for the thanks of Congress be presented to Honorable John Hay for the trihael aMdcdKriensls.ey memo appropriate memorial address delivered by him on the life and services
of William McKinley, late President of the United States, in the Representatives ' Hall, before both Houses of Congress and their invited guests, on the twenty-seventh of February, nineteen hundred
and two, and that he be requested to furnish a copy for publication. Resolved, That the Chairman of the joint committee appointed to
make the necessary arrangements to carry into effect the resolutions of this Congress in relation to the memorial exercises in honor of
William McKinley be requested to communicate to Mr. Hay the foregoing resolution, receive his answer thereto, and present the same to both Houses of Congress.

Passed June 3 , 1902.

SUNDRY CIVIL APPROPRIATIONS BILL .

June 18, 1902.

Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That teCeonofnerSenucnedrcyommCiivti-l the committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the two Houses bcilluldaeuatdhdoirtiizoendaltopuibn-on the amendments of the Senate to the Sundry Civil appropriation lie buildings." bill (H. R. 13123) are authorized to consider and recommend the in-
clusion in said bill of necessary appropriations to carry out the several objects authorized in the " Act to increase the limit of cost of certain Ante, p. 310.
public buildings , to authorize the purchase of sites for public buildings , to authorize the erection and completion of public buildings, and for
other purposes, " approved June sixth, nineteen hundred and two.
Passed June 18, 1902.

DISEASES OF THE HORSE.

June 19, 1902.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) ,

That Diseases Horse.

of

the

the Committee on Enrolled Bills in the enrollment of the joint resolu- Correction in joint

66

resolution for publi-

tion (S. R. 92) Providing for the publication of fifty thousand copies cation of.

of the Special Report of the Diseases of the Horse ", be authorized to

correct the title thereof by striking out the words " fifty thousand " and inserting the words " two hundred thousand ", so as to make the

same correspond with the amendment of the House of Representatives to the said resolution , concurred in by the Senate.

Passed June 19 , 1902 .

MEMORIAL ADDRESSES ON LINCOLN , GARFIELD , AND MCKINLEY.

June 26, 1902.

Memorial addresses Resolved by the Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That on Abraham Lincoln, there be printed and bound in one volume, in cloth, fifteen thousand JWailmleisaAm. MGacrKfiinellde,ya.nd copies of the three separate memorial addresses delivered before the Ordered printed.
two Houses of Congress, as follows : On February twelfth , eighteen hundred and sixty-six, by Honorable George Bancroft, on the life and character of Abraham Lincoln, late President of the United States ; on February twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and eighty - two , by Honorable James G. Blaine, on the life and character of James A. Garfield, late President of the United States; on February twenty-
seventh, nineteen hundred and two, by Honorable John Hay, on the life and character of William McKinley, late President of the United
States, ten thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representatives and five thousand copies for the use of the Senate.

1772

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .
The Joint Committee on Printing are hereby authorized to have the copy prepared for the Public Printer, who shall procure suitable portrait etchings to be bound in with these memorials, and shall use such paper and bindings as will make the volumes worthy of a place in the libraries of the land.
Passed June 26 , 1902.

June 27, 1902.

REPORT OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

Report of the Daughters of the Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That American Revolution there be printed seven thousand five hundred additional copies of ordered printed .
Senate Document Numbered One hundred and sixty-four, third ses-
sion Fifty -fifth Congress, being the report of the Daughters of the American Revolution for eighteen hundred and ninety to eighteen
hundred and ninety- seven, together with the historical preface herewith, indorsed by the board of management of that society , of which two thousand five hundred shall be for the use of the Senate and five
thousand for the use of the House of Representatives .
Passed June 27, 1902.

July 1, 1902.

PHILIPPINE BILL.

Philippine act.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring) , That

meCnotrroercdteiroendi.n enrol the Enrolling Clerks in the enrolment of the Senate bill 2295 be

directed to change the word " sixty-six " where it occurs in section 64 of said bill to the word " sixty-three ".

Passed July 1 , 1902.

July 1 , 1902.

ADJOURNMENT OF CONGRESS.

Adjournment Congress.

of Resolved bythe House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That
the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representative be authorized to close the present session by adjourning their respective Houses on the first day of July, nineteen hundred and two, at five thirty o'clock post meridian.
Passed July 1 , 1902.

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

1773

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS . SECOND SESSION, FIFTY- SEVENTH CONGRESS .

HOLIDAY RECESS , 1902-1903.

December 15, 1902 .

Resolvedby the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That when the two Houses adjourn on Saturday, December twentieth, they stand adjourned until twelve o'clock meridian Monday, January fifth, nineteen hundred and three.
Passed December 15 , 1902.

Holiday recess,

MISSOURI JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

January 8, 1903.

Resolved bythe Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That quReesttuedr.n of bill rethe President be requested to return to the Senate Senate bill 3316, being a bill to amend an Act to create a new division in the Western Judicial District of the State of Missouri, approved January twentyfourth, nineteen hundred and one.
Passed January 8 , 1903.

FRANCIS S. DAVIDSON.

February 3, 1903.

Resolved by the Senate (the Houseof Representatives concurring) , That quReestteudr.n of bill rethe President be requested to return to the Senate the bill (S. 1115) "For the relief of Francis S. Davidson , late first lieutenant , Ninth United States Cavalry. "
Passed February 3 , 1903.

BIOGRAPHICAL CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY.

February 10, 1903.

Resolved bythe House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That grBesisoigornaaplhiDicraelctoCroyn.there be printed , and bound in cloth , three thousand copies of a Con- Printing ordered. gressional Directory which embraces the biography of all members of Congress from the Continental Congress to the Fifty-seventh, inclusive, compiled by O. M. Enyart, two thousand copies for the use of the House Representatives and one thousand copies for the use of the Senate.
Passed February 10, 1903.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND LABOR.

February 12, 1903.

Resolved by the Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring) , That meDrecpearatnmdeLnatboofrC.omin the enrollment of the bill ( S. 569) " To establish the Department of meCnotrroefctbiilolneisntaebnlrioslhl-Commerce and Labor, " the Committee on Enrolled Bills be author- ing. ized to insert in line twelve, of the third paragraph of section six , after the word " Interstate " the word " Commerce.
Passed February 12 , 1903.

1774

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .

February 24, 1903.

EULOGY ON PRESIDENT MCKINLEY.

Eulogy on President McKinley by Hon. Resolved by the House ofRepresentatives (the Senate concurring) , That John Hay.
Printing ordered . there be printed and bound in the form of eulogies twenty - four thousand copies of the oration delivered by the Honorable John Hay in
the Hall of the House of Representatives during the exercises in
memory of the late President McKinley on February twenty- seventh, nineteen hundred and two ; sixteen thousand for the use of the House
of Representatives and eight thousand for the use of the Senate.
Passed February 24, 1903.

February 24 , 1903.

BANKRUPT LAWS , ETC.

Bankrupt laws,

forms, etc.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That

tiPonrionrtdienrgeodf. compila- there be printed and bound together in paper thirty thousand copies of the following documents, namely: " United States Bankrupt Law of

eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, uniform system, with marginal notes and index;" General Orders and Forms in Bankruptcy, adopted and

established by the Supreme Court of the United States, November

twenty -eighth, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, " and Public Law Numbered sixty-two for the amendment of the bankruptcy law, passed

by the Fifty-seventh Congress , second session , on January twenty-

eighth , nineteen hundred and three, " of which ten thousand copies shall be for the use of the Senate and twenty thousand copies for the use of the House.

Passed February 24 , 1903 .

February 24, 1903.

LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.

Louisiana Purchase

Exposition.

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring) , That

Acceptance by Con- the invitation extended to the Congress of the United States by the

gartetsesndofdiendviitcataitoinotno National Commission of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and by

services. Ante, p. 1068.

the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Company to attend the Dedicatory

Post, p. 2011.

Ceremonies of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition , to be held at Saint

Louis, Missouri , April thirtieth , and May first and second, nineteen

Committees.

hundred and three , be, and is hereby accepted. That the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the

House of Representatives be, and they are hereby, authorized and

directed to appoint a committee to consist of ten Senators and fifteen

Representatives, elected to the Fifty-eighth Congress, to attend the

Dedicatory Ceremonies referred to and to represent the Congress of the United States on the occasion of the celebration of the One Hun-

dredth Anniversary of the purchase of the Territory of Louisiana, at
Saint Louis, Missouri, April thirtieth and May first and second , nineteen hundred and three.

Passed February 24, 1903.

March 3, 1903.

IMMIGRATION BILL.

Immigration bill. Corrections in en- Resolved bythe Senate (the House ofRepresentatives concurring), That rollment to be made. the Committee on Enrolled Bills, in the enrollment of the bill (H. R.
12199) To regulate the immigration of aliens into the United States ,"
are hereby authorized and directed to correct the cross -references by

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS .
sections in said bill, made necessary by the changed numbering of the sections thereof, namely:
Page 3, lines 2 and 3, strike out [thirty-three] and insert: thirty -two Page 6, line 23, strike out [ five] and insert: four Page 8 , line 5, strike out [ five] and insert: four Page 8 , line 11 , strike out [ six] and insert: five Page 9 , line 4, strike out [six] and insert : five Page 13, line 7 , strike out [ thirteen , fourteen , and fifteen ] and insert: twelve, thirteen, and fourteen Page 13, line 14, strike out [thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen ] and insert: twelve, thirteen , and fourteen . Page 16 , line 13, strike out [five and six ] and insert: four and five Page 16, line 17, strike out [eighteen] and insert : seventeen Page 17 , line 21 , strike out [twenty-one] and insert: twenty Page 18 , line 5 , strike out [twenty ] and insert : nineteen Passed March 3 , 1903.

1775

 

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS CONCLUDED BY THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA WITH
FOREIGN NATIONS.

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -35

1777

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS.

Convention between the United States and Certain Powers for the pacific settlement of international disputes. Signed at The Hague July 29, 1899; ratification advised by the Senate February 5, 1900; ratified bythe President ofthe United States April 7, 1900; ratification deposited with the Netherlands Government September 4, 1900; proclaimed November 1, 1901.

July 29, 1899.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Convention for the pacific settlement of international disputes was concluded and signed on July 29, 1899, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America , Germany, Austria- Hungary, Belgium , China , Denmark, Spain, the United Mexican States , France, Great Britain and Ireland, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Servia, Siam, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland , Turkey and Bulgaria , the original of which Convention. in the French language, is word for word as follows :

Preamble.

CONVENTION POUR LE REGLEMENT PACIFIQUE DES CONFLITS INTERNATIONAUX .

[Translation. ]

Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Allemagne, Roi de Prusse ; Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Autriche, Roi de Bohme etc. et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie ; Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; Sa Majest l'Empereur de Chine; Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et en Son Nom Sa Majest la Reine- Rgente du Royaume ; le Prsident des Etats-
Unis d'Amrique ; le Prsident des Etats - Unis Mexicains ; le
Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise ; Sa Majest la Reine du Royaume-Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indes ; Sa Majest le Roi des Hellnes ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie ; Sa Majest l'Empereur
du Japon; Son Altesse Royale le Grand-Duc de Luxembourg,

His Majesty the Emperor of Germany , King of Prussia ; His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia etc. and Apostolic King of Hungary ; His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; His Majesty the Emperor of China ; His Majesty the King of Denmark; His Majesty the King of Spain and in His Name Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom ; the President of the United States of America; the President of the United Mexican States ; the President of the French Republic ; Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India; His Majesty the King of the Hellenes; His Majesty the King of Italy ; His Majesty the Emperor

Contracting parties. 1779

1780

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Duc de Nassau ; Son Altesse le Prince de Montngro ; Sa Majest la Reine des Pays-Bas; Sa Majest Impriale le Schah de Perse ; Sa Majest le Roi de Por-
tugal et des Algarves etc.; Sa Majest le Roi de Roumanie ; Sa Majest l'Empereur de Toutes les Russies; Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie; Sa Majest le Roi de Siam ; Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge ; le Conseil Fdral Suisse ; Sa Majest l'Empereur des Ottomans et Son Altesse Royale le Prince de Bulgarie

Purpose of convention.

Anims de la ferme volont de

concourir au maintien de la paix

gnrale;

Rsolus  favoriser de tous leurs

efforts le rglement aimable des conflits internationaux ;
Reconnaissant la solidarit qui unit les membres de la socit des nations civilises :

Voulant tendre l'empire du droit et fortifier le sentiment de la justice internationale ;

Convaincus que l'institution permanente d'une juridiction arbitrale , accessible  tous , au sein des Puissances indpendantes peut contribuer efficacement  ce rsultat ;

Considrant les avantages d'une
organisation gnrale et rgulire de la procdure arbitrale ;

Estimant avec l'Auguste Initiateur de la Confrence Internationale de la Paix qu'il importe de consacrer dans un accord interna-
tional les principes d'quit et de droit sur lesquels reposent la scurit des Etats et le bien-tre des Peuples ;
Dsirant conclure une Conven-
tion  cet effet ont nomm pour Leurs plnipotentiares , savoir :

Plenipotentiaries.

SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR D'ALLEMAGNE, ROI DE PRUSSE :
Son Excellence le COMTE DE
MNSTER, Prince de Derneburg, Son Ambassadeur  Paris.

of Japan ; His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg, Duke of Nassau ; His Highness the Prince of Montenegro ; Her
Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands; His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Persia ; His Majesty
the King of Portugal and of the Algarves etc.; His Majesty the King of Roumania ; His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias; His Majesty the King of Servia; His Majesty the King of Siam; His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway; the Swiss Federal Council ; His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans and His Royal Highness the Prince of Bulgaria Animated by a strong desire to concert for the maintenance of the general peace; Resolved to second by their best efforts the friendly settlement of international disputes ; Recognizing the solidarity which unites the members of the
society of civilized nations ; Desirous of extending the em-
pire of law, and of strengthening the appreciation of international justice ;
Convinced that the permanent
institution of a Court of Arbitration , accessible to all , in the midst of the independent Powers, will contribute effectively to this result:
Having regard to the advan-
tages attending the general and regular organization of arbitral procedure ;
Sharing the opinion of the august Initiator of the International Peace Conference that it is expedient to record in an international
Agreement the principles of equity and right on which are based the security of States and the welfare of peoples ;
Being desirous of concluding a Convention to this effect, have appointed as their plenipotentiaries, to -wit:
HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF GERMANY, KING OF PRUSSIA :
His Excellency COUNT DE MNSTER, Prince of Derneburg, His Ambassador at Paris.

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR D'AU-

HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF

TRICHE, ROI DE BOHME ETC. , ET ROI APOSTOLIQUE DE HONGRIE :
Son Excellence le COMTE R. DE WELSERSHEIMB, Son Ambassadeur

AUSTRIA, KING OF BOHEMIA ETC. , AND APOSTOLIC KING OF HUNGARY:
His Excellency COUNT R. DE WELSERSHEIMB, His Ambassador

extraordinaire et plnipotentiaire.
M. ALEXANDRE OKOLICSANYI D'OKOLICSNA, Son Envoy extra-

Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
MR. ALEXANDER OKOLICSANYI D'OKOLICSNA, His Envoy Extra-

ordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DES BELGES : Son Excellence M. AUGUSTE BEERNAERT , Son Ministre d'tat, Prsident de la Chambre des Reprsentants . M. le COMTE DE GRELLE

ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE BELGIANS :
His Excellency MR. AUGUSTE BEERNAERT, His Minister of State, President of the Chamber of Representatives .
COUNT DE GRELLE ROGIER, His

ROGIER, Son Envoy extraordi- Envoy Extraordinary and Minis-

naire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Have.
M. le CHEVALIER DESCAMPS, Snateur.
SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR DE CHINE:
M. YANG Y, Son Envov ex-

ter Plenipotentiary at The Hague. The CHEVALIER DESCAMPS , Sen-
ator.
HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF CHINA:
MR. YANG YU, His Envoy Ex-

traordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DE DANEMARK :
Son Chambellan FR. E. DE BILLE,

traordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK :
His Chamberlain FR. E. DE

Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres.
SA MAJEST LE ROI D'ESPAGNE ET EN SON NOM, SA MAJEST LA REINE-RGENTE DU ROYAUME :
Son Excellence le Duc DE TETUAN, Ancien Ministre des Affaires Etrangres.
M.W. RAMIREZ DE VILLA URRUTIA, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles .
M. ARTHUR DE BAGUER, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
LE PRSIDENT DES TATS- UNIS D'AMRIQUE :
Son Excellence M. ANDREW D. WHITE, Ambassadeur des tatsUnis  Berlin .
M. SETH Low, Prsident de PUniversit " Columbia "  NewYork.

BILLE, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SPAIN AND IN HIS NAME, HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN REGENT OF THE KINGDOM :
His Excellency the DUKE OF TETUAN. formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs.
MR. W. RAMIREZ DE VILLA
URRUTIA, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels.
MR. ARTHUR DE BAGUER, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
His Excellency MR. ANDREW D. WHITE , Ambassador of the United States at Berlin.
MR. SETH Low, President of Columbia University, New York.

M. STANFORD NEWEL, Envoy MR. STANFORD NEWEL, Envoy

extraordinaire et Ministre plni- Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-

potentiaire  la Haye.

potentiary at The Hague.

1781

1782

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

M. ALFRED T. MAHAN, Capitaine de Vaisseau.
M. WILLIAM CROZIER, Capitaine d'Artillerie.
LE PRSIDENT DES TATS-UNIS MEXICAINS :
M. DE MIER, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris .
M. ZENIL, Ministre -Rsident  Bruxelles.
LE PRSIDENT DE LA RPU-
BLIQUE FRANAISE : M. LEON BOURGEOIS, Ancien
Prsident du Conseil, Ancien Ministre des Affaires trangres, Membre de la Chambre des Dputs .
M. GEORGES BIHOURD, Envoy
extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
M. le BARON D'ESTOURNELLES

CAPTAIN ALFRED T. MAHAN.
CAPTAIN WILLIAM CROZIER.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES :
MR. DE MIER, Envoy Extraor dinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris .
MR. ZENIL, Minister Resident at Brussels.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC :
Mr. LEON BOURGEOIS, formerly President of the Council , formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs , Member of the Chamber of Depu ties.
MR. GEORGES BIHOURD, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
The BARON D'ESTOURNELLES DE

DE CONSTANT, Ministre plnipotentiaire, Membre de la Chambre des Dputs .
SA MAJEST LA REINE DU ROYAUME UNI DE LA GRANDE BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE, IMPRATRICE DES INDES :
Son Excellence le Trs Honorable BARON PAUNCEFOTE DE PRES-

CONSTANT, Minister Plenipotentiary, Member of the Chamber of Deputies.
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND , EMPRESS OF INDIA:
His Excellency the Right Honorable BARON PAUNCEFOTE OF

TON, Membre du Conseil Priv de Sa Majest, Son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plnipotentiaire  Washington.
SIR HENRY HOWARD, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DES HELLNES :
M. N. DELYANNI, Ancien Prsident du Conseil, Ancien Ministre des Affaires trangres, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris.
SA MAJEST LE ROI D'ITALIE : Son Excellence le COMTE NIGRA, Son Ambassadeur  Vienne , Snateur du Royaume. M. le COMTE A. ZANNINI , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye. M. le COMMANDEUR GUIDO POMPILJ, Dput au Parlement Italien. SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR DU JAPON: M. I. MOTONO, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles.

PRESTON, Member of Her Majesty's Privy Council , Her Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Washington.
SIR HENRY HOWARD, Her En-
voy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE HELLENES :
MR. N. DELYANNI, formerly President of the Council, formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF ITALY :
His Excellency COUNT NIGRA, His Ambassador at Vienna , Senator of the Kingdom .
COUNT A. ZANNINI , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary at The Hague. COMMANDER GUIDO POMPILJ,
Deputy in the Italian Parliament. HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF
JAPAN:
MR. I. MOTONO, His Envoy Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary at Brussels .

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

SON ALTESSE ROYALE LE GRAND DUC DE LUXEMBOURG, DUC DE NASSAU:
Son Excellence M. EYSCHEN, Son Ministre d'tat , Prsident du Gouvernement Grand-Ducal.
SON ALTESSE LE PRINCE DE MONTNGRO :
Son Excellence M. le CONSEIL-
LER PRIV ACTUEL DE STAAL, Ambassadeur de Russie  Londres .
SA MAJEST LA REINE DES PAYSBAS :
M. le JONKHEER A. P. C. VAN
KARNEBEEK, Ancien Ministre des Affaires trangres, Membre de la Seconde Chambre des tats - Gnraux .
M. le GNRAL J. C. C. DEN BEER POORTUGAEL , Ancien Ministre de la Guerre, Membre du Conseil d'tat.
M. T. M. C. ASSER, Membre du Conseil d'tat.
M. E. N. RAHUSEN , Membre de la Premire Chambre des tatsGnraux .

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
GRAND DUKE OF LUXEMBURG, DUKE OF NASSUA.
His Excellency Mr. EYSCHEN, His minister of State , President of the Grand Ducal Government.
HIS HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF MONTENEGRO :
His Excellency the present PRIVY COUNCILLOR DE STAAL, Ambassador of Russia at London.
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN OF THE NETHERLANDS :
JONKHEER A. P. C. VAN KAR-
NEBEEK , formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs, Member of the Second Chamber of the StatesGeneral.
GENERAL J. C. C. DEN BEER
POORTUGAEL, formerly Minister of War, Member of the Council of State .
Mr. T. M. C. ASSER, Member of the Council of State.
Mr. E. N. RAHUSEN, Member of the First Chamber of the StatesGeneral.

SA MAJEST IMPRIALE LE SCHAH DE PERSE :
Son Aide de Camp GNRAL MIRZA RIZA KHAN, Afra-ud- Dovleh, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg et  Stockholm.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DE PORTUGAL ET DES ALGARVES , ETC .:
M. le COMTE DE MACEDO, Pair du Royaume, Ancien Ministre de la Marine et des Colonies, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Madrid.
M. D'ORNELLAS ET VASCONCELLOS, Pair du Royaume, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg.
M. le COMTE DE SELIR, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.

HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY THE SHAH OF PERSIA:
His Aid-de-Camp GENERAL
MIRZA RIZA KHAN, Arfa- ud- Dovleh, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and at Stockholm.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF PORTUGAL AND OF THE ALGARVES, ETC.:
COUNT DE MACEDO , Peer of the Kingdom, formerly Minister of the Navy and of the Colonies, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Madrid.
Mr. D'ORNELLAS ET VASCON-
CELLOS, Peer of the Kingdom , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg.
COUNT DE SELIR, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.

SA MAJEST LE ROI DE ROUMANIE :
M. ALEXANDRE BELDIMAN, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Berlin.
M. JEAN N. PAPINIU, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire  la Haye.

HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF ROUMANIA:
MR. ALEXANDER BELDIMAN, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Berlin.
Mr. JEAN N. PAPINIU, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.

1783

1784

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR DE TOUTES LES RUSSIES :
Son Excellence M. le CONSEIL-

HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF ALL THE RUSSIAS :
His Excellency the present

LER PRIV ACTUEL DE STAAL , Son Ambassadeur  Londres.
M. DE MARTENS , Membre Permanent du Conseil du Ministre

PRIVY COUNCILLOR DE STAAL , His Ambassador at London.
MR. DE MARTENS, Permanent Member of the Council of the Im-

Imprial des Affaires Etrangres, Son Conseiller Priv.
Son CONSEILLER D'ETAT ACTUEL
DE BASILY, Chambellan, Directeur

perial Ministry of Foreign Affairs, His Privy Councillor.
His present COUNCILLOR OF STATE DE BASILY, Chamberlain,

du Premier Dpartement du Ministre Imprial des Affaires Etrangres .
SA MAJEST LE ROI DE SERBIE: M. MIYATOVITCH, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres et  la Haye.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DE SIAM :

Director of the First Department of the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SERVIA :
MR. MIYATOVITCH, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London and at The Hague.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SIAM:

M. PHYA SURIYA NUVATR, Son

PHYA SURIYA NUVATR, His En-

Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre voy Extraordinary and Minister

plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg et  Paris.
M. PHYA VISUDDHA SURIYA-

Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and at Paris.
PHYA VISUDDHA SURIYASAKTI ,

SAKTI, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Have et  Londres.
SA MAJEST LE ROI DE SUDE ET DE NORVGE :
M. le BARON DE BILDT, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Rome.
LE CONSEIL FDRAL SUISSE : M. le DR. ARNOLD ROTH, En-

His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague and at London.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SWEDEN AND NORWAY :
BARON DE BILDT, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Rome.
THE SWISS FEDERAL COUNCIL :
DR. ARNOLD ROTH, Envoy Ex-

voy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Berlin.
SA MAJEST L'EMPEREUR DES OTTOMANS :
Son Excellence TURKHAN PA-

traordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Berlin.
HIS MAJESTY THE EMPEROR OF THE OTTOMANS :
His Excellency TURKHAN PA-

CHA, Ancien Ministre des Affaires trangres, Membre de Son Conseil d'Etat.

CHA, formerly Minister of Foreign Affairs , Member of His Council of State.

NOURY BEY, Secrtaire- Gnral NOURY BEY, Secretary-General au Ministre des Affaires tran- at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

gres . SON ALTESSE ROYALE LE PRINCE
DE BULGARIE : M. le DR. DIMITRI STANCIOFF ,

HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF BULGARIA :
DR. DIMITRI STANCIOFF, Diplo-

Agent Diplomatique  St. Ptersbourg.
M. le MAJOR CHRISTO HESSAPT-

matic Agent at St. Petersburg. MAJOR CHRISTO HESSAPTCHIEFF ,

CHIEFF, Attach Militaire  Belgrade .
Lesquels, aprs s'tre communiqu leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouvs en bonne et due forme, sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :

Military Attach at Belgrade.
Who, after communication of their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed on the following provisions :

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

1785

TITRE I. - DU MAINTIEN DE LA TITLE I. ON THE MAINTENANCE

PAIX GNRALE .

OF THE GENERAL PEACE.

ARTICLE 1 .

ARTICLE I.

En vue de prvenir autant que possible le recours  la force dans les rapports entre les Etats, les
Puissances signataires conviennent d'employer tous leurs efforts pour assurer le rglement pacifique des diffrends internationaux.

Pacific settlement With a view to obviating, as far of differences. as possible, recourse to force in the relations between States, the
Signatory Powers agree to use their best efforts to insure the pacific settlement of international differences.

TITRE II .-- DES BONS OFFICES ET

TITLE

II. -ON GOOD OFFICES

AND

Good offices mediation.

and

DE LA MDIATION.

MEDIATION.

ARTICLE 2 .

ARTICLE II.

En cas de dissentiment grave ou de conflit, avant d'en appeler aux armes , les Puissances signataires conviennent d'avoir recours , en
tant que les circonstances le permettront, aux bons offices ou  la
mdiation d'une ou de plusieurs Puissances amies.

Recourse to good In case of serious disagreement offices. or conflict, before an appeal to
arms, the Signatory Powers agree to have recourse, as far as circum-
stances allow, to the good offices or mediation of one or more
friendly Powers.

ARTICLE 3.

ARTICLE III.

Indpendamment de ce recours, les Puissances signataires jugent utile qu'une ou plusieurs Puissances trangres au conflit
offrent de leur propre initiative , en tant qui les circonstances s'y prtent, leurs bons offices ou leur mdiation aux Etats en conflit.
Le droit d'offrir les bons offices
ou la mdiation appartient aux Puissances trangres au conflit, mme pendant le cours des hostilits .
L'exercice de ce droit ne peut jamais tre considr par l'une ou l'autre des Parties en litige comme un acte peu amical.

Independently of this recourse, the Signatory Powers recommend that one ormore Powers , strangers to the dispute, should, on their own initiative, and as far as circumstances may allow, offer their good offices or mediation to the States at variance.
Powers, strangers to the dis-
pute, have the right to offer good offices or mediation , even during the course of hostilities.

Offers of mediation During hostilities.

The

exercise

of

this

right

can

Not act.

an unfriendly

never be regarded by one or the

other of the parties in conflict as

an unfriendly act.

ARTICLE 4 .

ARTICLE IV.

Le rle du mdiateur consiste  concilier les prtentions opposes et  apaiser les ressentiments qui peuvent s'tre produits entre les Etats en conflit.
ARTICLE 5.

The part of the mediator consists in reconciling the opposing claims and appeasing the feelings of resentment which may have arisen between the States at variance.
ARTICLE V.

Scope of mediator.

Les fonctions du mdiateur ces-

The

functions

of

the

mediator End of functions.

mediator's

sent du moment o il est constat, are at an end when once it is de-

1786

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

soit par l'une des Parties en litige, soit par le mdiateur lui-mme, que les moyens de conciliation
proposs par lui ne sont pas accepts.

clared, either by one of the parties to the dispute, or by the mediator himself, that the means of recon-
ciliation proposed by him are not accepted.

Not binding.

ARTICLE 6.

ARTICLE VI.

Les bons offices et la mdiation,
soit sur le recours des Parties en conflit, soit sur l'initiative des Puissances trangres au conflit, ont exclusivement le caractre de conseil et n'ont jamais force obligatoire.

Good offices and mediation,
either at the request of the parties at variance, or on the initiative of Powers strangers to the dispute, have exclusively the character of advice and never having binding force .

ARTICLE 7 .

ARTICLE VII.

Noninterruption of L'acceptation de la mdiation war measures.
ne peut avoir pour effet, sauf con-

vention contraire, d'interrompre,

de retarder ou d'entraver la mobi-

During hostilities.

lisation et autres mesures prparatoires  la guerre.
Si elle intervient aprs l'ouver-

ture des hostilits , elle n'inter-

rompt pas, sauf convention con-

traire , les oprations militaires en cours.

The acceptance of mediation can not, unless there be an agreement
to the contrary, have the effect of interrupting, delaying, or hindering mobilization or other measures of preparation for war.
If mediation occurs after the commencement of hostilities it causes no interruption to the mili-
tary operations in progress, unless there be an agreement to the contrary .

ARTICLE 8 .

ARTICLE VIII .

Special mediation . Les Puissances signataires sont
d'accord pour recommander l'application, dans les circonstances
qui le permettent, d'une Mdiation spciale sous la forme suivante. Choosingmediators. En cas de diffrend grave comAuthority. promettant la Paix, les Etats en conflit choisissent respectivement une Puissance  laquelle ils confient la mission d'entrer en rapport direct avec la Puissance choisie
d'autre part,  l'effet de prvenir la rupture des relations pacifiques.

States in conflict to Pendant la dure de ce mandat cease direct commu-

nication.

dont le terme, sauf stipulation

contraire, ne peut excder trente

jours, les Etats en litige cessent tout rapport direct au sujet du con-

flit, lequel est considr comme dfr exclusivement aux Puis-

sances mdiatrices . Celles - ci doi-
vent appliquer tous leurs efforts  rgler le diffrend. Efforts to restore En cas de rupture effective des peace. relations pacifiques, ces Puissances

demeurent charges de la mission

The Signatory Powers are agreed in recommending the application , when circumstances
allow, of special mediation in the following form :-
In case of a serious difference
endangering the peace, the States at variance choose respectively a Power, to whom they intrust the mission of entering into direct communication with the Power chosen on the other side, with the object of preventing the rupture of pacific relations.
For the period of this mandate, the term of which, unless otherwise stipulated, cannot exceed thirty days, the States in conflict cease from all direct communica-
tion on the subject of the dispute, which is regarded as referred exclusively to the mediating Powers, who must use their best efforts to settle it.
In case of a definite rupture of pacific relations, these Powers are charged with the joint task of tak-

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

1787

commune de profiter de toute occa- ing advantage of any opportunity

sion pour rtablir la paix.

to restore peace.

TITRE III . -DES COMMISSIONS IN- TITLE III. -On INTERNATIONAL International commissions of inquiry.

TERNATIONALES D'ENQUTE.

COMMISSIONS OF INQUIRY.

ARTICLE 9.

ARTICLE IX.

Dans les litiges d'ordre interna-

In

differences

of an international

Investigations differences.

of

tional n'engageant ni l'honneur ni nature involving neither honour

des intrts essentiels et provenant nor vital interests, and arising from

d'une divergence d'apprciation a difference of opinion on points of

sur des points de fait, les Puis- fact, the Signatory Powers recom-

sances signataires jugent utile que mend that the parties, who have les Parties qui n'auraient pu se not been able to come to an agree-

mettre d'accord par les voies diplomatiques instituent, en tant que les circonstances le permettront,

ment by means of diplomacy, should as far as circumstances allow, institute an International

une Commission internationale Commission of Inquiry, to facilid'enqute charge de faciliter la tate a solution of these differences

solution de ces litiges en claircis- by elucidating the facts by means sant, par un examen impartial et of an impartial and conscientious

consciencieux, les questions de fait. investigation .

ARTICLE 10.

ARTICLE X.

Les Commissions internationales d'enqute sont constitues par convention spciale entre les Parties en litige.
La convention d'enqute prcise les faits  examiner et l'tendue des pouvoirs des commissaires.
Elle rgle la procdure . L'enqute a lieu contradictoirement. La forme et les dlais  observer, en tant qu'ils ne sont pas fixs par la convention d'enqute, sont dtermins par la commission ellemme.

The International Commissions Special agreement.

of Inquiry are constituted by spe-

cial agreement between the parties in conflict.

The Convention

for

an

inquiry

Extent tion

of jurisdic-

defines the facts to be examined

and the extent of the Commission-

ers' powers.

It settles the procedure.

On the inquiry both sides must be heard.

The form and the periods to be observed , if not stated in the

inquiry Convention, are decided by the Commission itself .

ARTICLE 11.

ARTICLE XI.

Les Commissions internationales
d'enqute sont formes, sauf stipulation contraire, de la manire dtermine par l'article 32 de la prsente Convention.

The

International

Commissions

Formation missions.

of Com.

of Inquiry are formed, unless Post, p. 1793.

otherwise stipulated, in the manner fixed by Article XXXII of

the present convention.

ARTICLE 12.

ARTICLE XII.

Les Puissances en litige s'enga-
gent  fournir  la Commission internationale d'enqute, dans la plus large mesure qu'Elles jugeront possible, tous les moyens et toutes les facilits ncessaires pour la connaissance complte et l'apprciation exacte des faits en question.

The powers in dispute engage teFdabcytsditsopbuteanstusb.mit-
to supply the International Commission of Inquiry, as fully as they may think possible, with all means and facilities . necessary to enable it to be completely
acquainted with and to accurately understand the facts in question.

1788

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Report. Scope of report.

ARTICLE 13 .

ARTICLE XIII.

La Commission internationale
d'enqute prsente aux Puissances en litige son rapport sign par tous les membres de la Commission .

The International Commission
of Inquiry communicates its Report to the conflicting Powers , signed by all the members of the Commission .

ARTICLE 14 .

ARTICLE XIV .

Le rapport de la Commission
internationale d'enqute , limit  la constatation des faits, n'a nullement le caractre d'une sentence arbitrale . Il laisse aux Puissances
en litige une entire libert pour la suite  donner  cette constatation .

The report of the International Commission of Inquiry is limited to a statement of facts, and has in no way the character of an Arbitral Award . It leaves the conflict-
ing Powers entire freedom as to the effect to be given to this statement..

International arbi- TITRE IV. - DE L'ARBITRAGE IN- TITLE IV. -ON INTERNATIONAL

tration .

TERNATIONAL.

ARBITRATION.

CHAPITRE I. - De la Justice Arbi- CHAPTER I. - On the System of

trale.

Arbitration.

ARTICLE 15.

ARTICLE XV .

Object.

L'arbitrage international a pour objet le rglement de litiges entre les Etats par des juges de leur choix et sur la base du respect du droit.

International arbitration has for its object the settlement of differences between States by judges of their own choice , and on the basis of respect for law.

ARTICLE 16.

ARTICLE XVI.

Recognition of system .

Dans les questions d'ordre juri-

dique, et en premier lieu dans les

questions d'interprtation ou d'ap-

plication des conventions interna-

tionales, l'arbitrage est reconnu par

les Puissances signataires comme le

moyen le plus efficace et en mme

temps le plus quitable de rgler

les litiges qui n'ont pas t rsolus

par les voies diplomatiques.

In questions of a legal nature, and especially in the interpretation or application of International Conventions, arbitration is recognized by the Signatory Powers as the most effective , and at the same time the most equitable, means of settling disputes which diplomacy has failed to settle.

ARTICLE 17.

ARTICLE XVII.

Questions ered .

consid- La convention d'arbitrage est
conclue pour des contestations dj nes ou pour des contestations ventuelles .
Elle peut concerner tout litige ou seulement les litiges d'une catgorie dtermine.

The Arbitration Convention is concluded for questions already existing or for questions which may arise eventually.
It may embrace any dispute or only disputes of a certain category.

ARTICLE 18 .

ARTICLE XVIII.

Submission to La convention d'arbitrage imaward.
plique l'engagement de se soumettre de bonne foi  la sentence
arbitrale .

The Arbitration Convention im-
plies the engagement to submit loyally to the Award.

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

1789

ARTICLE 19 .

ARTICLE XIX.

Indpendamment des traits gnraux ou particuliers qui stipulent actuellement l'obligation du recours  l'arbitrage pour les Puissances signataires, ces Puissances se rservent de conclure, soit avant la ratification du prsent Acte , soit postrieurement, des accords nouveaux, gnraux ou particuliers, en vue d'tendre l'arbitrage obligatoire  tous les cas qu'Elles jugeront possible de lui soumettre.

Independently of general or pri- exRtiegnhdtprirnecsieprlvee.d to
vate Treaties expressly stipulating recourse to arbitration as obligatory on the Signatory Powers , these Powers reserve to themselves the right of concluding , either before the ratification of the present Act or later, new Agreements, general or private , with a view to extending obligatory arbitration to all cases which they may consider it possible to submit to it.

CHAPITRE II. -De la Cour Perma- CHAPTER II. - On the Permanent

nente d'Arbitrage.

Court of Arbitration.

ARTICLE 20.

ARTICLE XX.

Dans le but de faciliter le recours
immdiat  l'arbitrage pour les diffrends internationaux qui n'ont pu tre rgls par la voie diplomatique, les Puissances signataires s'engagent  organiser une Cour permanente d'arbitrage, accessible en tout temps et fonctionnant, sauf stipulation contraire des Parties, conformment aux Rgles de procdure insres dans la prsente Convention.

With the object of facilitating maOnrgeanntizcaoutritonofofaprebrian immediate recourse to arbitra tration. tion for international differences , which it has not been possible to settle by diplomacy, the Signatory Powers undertake to organize a permanent Court of Arbitration, accessible at all times and operating, unless otherwise stipulated by the parties , in accordance with the Rules of Procedure inserted in the present Convention .

ARTICLE 21 .

ARTICLE XXI.

La Cour permanente sera comptente pour tous les cas d'arbitrage,  moins qu'il n'y ait entente entre les Parties pour l'tablissement d'une juridiction spciale.

The Permanent Court shall be competent for all arbitration cases, unless the parties agree to institute a special Tribunal.

Authority.

ARTICLE 22.

ARTICLE XXII .

Un Bureau international tabli  la Haye sert de greffe  la Cour.
Ce Bureau est l'intermdiaire des communications relatives aux runions de celle -ci .
Il a la garde des archives et la gestion de toutes les affaires administratives.
Les Puissances signataires s'engagent  communiquer au Bureau international de La Haye une copie certifie conforme de toute stipulation d'arbitrage intervenue entre elles et de toute sentence arbitrale les concernant et rendue par des juridictions spciales .

International buAn International Bureau, estab- reau.

lished at The Hague, serves as record office for the Court.
This Bureau is the channel for

Communications.

communications relative to the

meetings of the Court. It has the custody of the ar- Archives.

chives and conducts all the admin-
istrative business.
Awards of special The Signatory Powers under- tribunals. take to communicate to the Inter-

national Bureau at The Hague a duly certified copy of any conditions of arbitration arrived at

between them, and of any award

concerning them delivered by special Tribunals .

1790

CONVENTION - INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Execution ofawards. Elles s'engagent  communiquer
de mme au Bureau, les lois, rglements et documents constatant ventuellement l'excution des sentences rendues par la Cour.

They undertake also to communicate to the Bureau the Laws, Regulations, and documents eventually showing the execution of the awards given by the Court.

ARTICLE 23.

ARTICLE XXIII .

Selection of arbitrators.

Chaque Puissance signataire d-

signera, dans les trois mois qui

suivront la ratification par elle du

prsent acte, quatre personnes au

plus, d'une comptence reconnue

dans les questions de droit inter-

national, jouissant de la plus haute

considration morale et disposes

 accepter les fonctions d'arbitres.

List to be sent Pow-

ers.

Les personnes ainsi dsignes

seront inscrites , au titre de mem-

bres de la Cour, sur une liste qui

sera notifie  toutes les Puissances

Changes.

signataires par les soins du Bureau. Toute modification  la liste des

arbitres est porte, par les soins

du Bureau,  la connaissance des

Puissances signataires.

Selection in com-

mon.

Deux ou plusieurs Puissances

peuvent s'entendre pour la dsi-

gnation en commun d'un ou de plusieurs membres .

Term of service.

La mme personne peut tre dsigne par des Puissances differentes .
Les membres de la Cour sont

Vacancies.

nomms pour un terme de six ans. Leur mandat peut tre renouvel.
En cas de dcs ou de retraite
d'un membre de la Cour, il est pourvu  son remplacement selon le mode fix pour sa nomination .

Within the three months follow-
ing its ratification of the present Act, each Signatory Power shall select four persons at the most, of known competency in questions of international law, of the highest moral reputation, and disposed to accept the duties of Arbitrators.
The persons thus selected shall be inscribed, as members of the Court, in a list which shall be notified by the Bureau to all the Signatory Powers.
Any alteration in the list of Ar-
bitrators is brought by the Bureau to the knowledge of the Signatory Powers.
Two or more Powers may agree on the selection in common of one or more Members.
The same person can be selected by different Powers.
The Members of the Court are
appointed for a term of six years. Their appointments can be renewed.
In case of the death or retirement of a member of the Court, his place shall be filled in accordance with the method of his appointment.

ARTICLE 24.

ARTICLE XXIV .

Choice of tribunal Lorsque les Puissances signaby Powers.
taires veulent s'adresser  la Cour

permanente pour le rglement d'un diffrend survenu entre elles, le

choix des arbitres appels  former

le Tribunal comptent pour statuer sur ce diffrend, doit tre fait dans

Failure of agreement.

la liste gnrale des membres de la Cour. direct A dfaut de constitution du
Tribunal arbitral par l'accord im-

mdiat des Parties, il est procd

de la manire suivante :

Appointment of arbitrators.

Chaque Partie nomme deux ar-

bitres et ceux- ci choisissent ensem-

ble un surarbitre.

When the Signatory Powers desire to have recourse to the Permanent Court for the settlement of a difference that has arisen between
them, the Arbitrators called upon to form the competent Tribunalto decide this difference, must be chosen from the general list of members of the Court.
Failing the direct agreement of the parties on the composition of the Arbitration Tribunal, the following course shall be pursued :-
Each party appoints two Arbitrators, and these together choose an Umpire.

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

1791

En cas de partage des voix , le choix de surarbitre est confi  une Puissance tierce, dsigne de commun accord par les Parties .
Si l'accord ne s'tablit pas  ce sujet, chaque Partie dsigne une Puissance diffrente et le choix du surarbitre est fait de concert par les Puissances ainsi dsignes.
Le Tribunal tant ainsi compos, les parties notifient au Bureau leur dcision de s'adresser  la Cour et les noms des arbitres.
Le Tribunal arbitral se runit  la date fixe par les Parties.
Les membres de la Cour, dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions et en dehors de leur Pays, jouissent des privilges et immunits diplomatiques.

If the votes are equal, the choice of the Umpire is intrusted to a third Power, selected by the par-

Umpire .

ties by common accord.

If an agreement

is

not

arrived

Selection ers.

by

Pow-

at on this subject, each party se-

lects a different Power, and the

choice of the Umpire is made in concert by the Powers thus selected.
The Tribunal being thus com-

Notification .

posed, the parties notify to the Bureau their determination to

have recourse to the Court and

the names of the Arbitrators.

The

Tribunal

of

Arbitration

as-

Meeting nal.

of

tribu-

sembles on the date fixed by the

parties.

The Members of the Court, in Diplomatic privileges.
the discharge of their duties and

out of their own country , enjoy

diplomatic privileges and immunities.

ARTICLE 25.

ARTICLE XXV.

Le Tribunal arbitral sige d'ordinaire  la Haye.
Le sige ne peut, sauf le cas de force majeure, tre chang par le Tribunal que de l'assentiment des Parties .

The Tribunal of Arbitration has
its ordinary seat at The Hague. Except in cases of necessity, the
place of session can only be altered by the Tribunal with the assent of the parties.

Seat of Tribunal.

ARTICLE 26.

ARTICLE XXVI .

Le Bureau international de la
Haye est autoris  mettre ses locaux et son organisation  la disposition des Puissances signataires pour le fonctionnement de toute juridiction spciale d'arbitrage.
La juridiction de la Cour permanente peut tre tendue, dans les conditions prescrites par les Rglements, aux litiges existant entre des Puissances non signataires ou entre des Puissances signataires et des Puissances non signataires , si les Parties sont convenues de recourir  cette juridiction.

The International

Bureau at The

Use of Bureau special boards.

for

Hague is authorized to place its

premises and its staff at the dis-

posal of the Signatory Powers for

the operations of any special Board of Arbitration .

The jurisdiction of the Perma- diEcxtitoennsoifoPneorfmajnureins-t nent Court, may, within the con- Court.

ditions laid down in the Regula-

tions, be extended to disputes between non- Signatory Powers, or

between Signatory Powers and

non-Signatory Powers, if the par-

ties are agreed on recourse to this

Tribunal.

ARTICLE 27.

ARTICLE XXVII.

Le Puissances signataires considrent comme un devoir, dans le cas o un conflit aigu menacerait d'clater entre deux ou plusieurs d'entre Elles, de rappeler  cellesci que la Cour permanente leur est ouverte.

The Signatory Powers consider taNntost. ifying dispuit their duty, if a serious dispute threatens to break out between two or more of them, to remind these latter that the Permanent
Court is open to them.

1792

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Regarded as a friendly act.

En consquence, Elles dclarent

que le fait de rappeler aux Parties

en conflit les dispositions de la

prsente Convention , et le conseil

donn, dans l'intrt suprieur de

la paix, de s'adresser  la Cour permanente ne peuvent tre con-

sidrs que comme actes de Bons Offices.

Consequently, they declare that the fact of reminding the conflicting parties of the provisions of the present Convention, and the advice given to them, in the highest interests of peace, to have recourse to the Permanent Court,
can only be regarded as friendly actions.

ARTICLE 28.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

Administrative Council.

Un Conseil administratif per-

manent compos des reprsentants

diplomatiques des Puissances si-

gnataires accrdits  la Haye et du Ministre des Affaires Etran-

gres des Pays- Bas qui remplira les fonctions de Prsident, sera cons-

titut dans cette ville le plus tt

possible aprs la ratification du

prsent Act par neuf Puissances au moins. Functions of Coun- Ce Conseil sera charg d'tablir cil. et d'organiser le Bureau interna-

tional, lequel demeurera sous sa direction et sous son contrle.

Quorum. Decisions. Regulations. Annual report.

Il notifiera aux Puissances la
constitution de la Cour et pourvoira  l'installation de celle-ci.
Il arrtera son rglement d'ordre ainsi que tous autres rglements ncessaires .
Il dcidera toutes les questions administratives qui pourraient surgir touchant le fonctionnement de la Cour.
Il aura tout pouvoir quant  la nomination , la suspension ou la rvocation des fonctionnaires et employs du Bureau .
Il fixera les traitements et sa-
laires et contrlera la dpense gnrale.
La prsence de cinq membres dans les runions dment convoques suffit pour permettre au Conseil de dlibrer valablement. Les dcisions sont prises  la majorit des voix.
Le Conseil communique sans
dlai aux Puissances signataires les rglements adopts par lui. Il leur adresse chaque anne un rap port sur les travaux de la Cour, sur le fonctionnement des services administratifs et sur les dpenses.

A Permanent Administrative
Council, composed of the Diplomatic Representatives of the Signatory Powers accredited to The Hague and of the Netherland Min-
ister for Foreign Affairs, who will act as President, shall be insti-
tuted in this town as soon as possible after the ratification of the
present Act by at least nine Powers.
This Council will be charged
with the establishment and organi zation ofthe International Bureau, which will be under its direction and control.
It will notify to the Powers the constitution of the Court and will provide for its installation.
It will settle its Rules of Pro-
cedure and all other necessary Regulations.
It will decide all questions of administration which may arise with regard to the operations of the Court.
It will have entire control over
the appointment, suspension or dismissal of the officials and employs of the Bureau.
It will fix the payments and salaries, and control the general expenditure.
At meetings duly summoned the presence of five members is sufficient to render valid the discussions of the Council. The decisions are taken by a majority of votes.
The Council communicates to
the Signatory Powers without delay the Regulations adopted by it. It furnishes them with an annual Report on the labours of the Court, the working of the administration , and the expenses.

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

1793

ARTICLE 29.

ARTICLE XXIX .

Les frais du Bureau seront sup-
ports par les Puissances signataires dans la proportion tablie pour le Bureau international de 'Union postale universelle.

The expenses of the Bureau
shall be borne by the Signatory Powers in the proportion fixed for the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.

Expenses. Ante, pp . 81 , 812. Vol. 30, p. 1692.

CHAPITRE III. -De la Procdure CHAPTER III. - On Arbitral Pro-

Arbitrale.

cedure.

ARTICLE 30.

ARTICLE XXX.

En vue de favoriser le dveloppement de l'arbitrage, les Pussances signataires ont arrt les rgles suivantes qui seront applicables  la procdure arbitrale, en tant que les Parties ne sont pas convenues d'autres rgles .

With a view to encourage the development of arbitration, the Signatory Powers have agreed on the following Rules which shall be applicable to arbitral procedure, unless other rules have been agreed on by the parties.

Rules of procedure.

ARTICLE 31 .

ARTICLE XXXI.

Les Puissances qui recourent 

The Powers who have recourse Special act ; contents.

l'arbitrage signent un acte spcial to arbitration sign a special Act

(compromis) dans lequel sont net- (" Compromis "), in which the sub-

tement dtermins l'objet du litige ject of the difference is clearly de-

ainsi que l'tendue des pouvoirs fined, as well as the extent of the des arbitres. Cet acte implique Abitrators ' powers. This Act im-

l'engagement des Parties de se plies the undertaking of the parties soumettre de bonne foi  la sen- to submit loyally to the award.

tence arbitrale.

ARTICLE 32.

ARTICLE XXXII .

Les fonctions arbitrales peuvent tre confres  un arbitre unique ou  plusieurs arbitres dsigns par les Parties  leur gr, ou choisis par Elles parmi les membres de la Cour permanente d'arbritage tablie par le prsent Acte.
A dfaut de constitution du Tri-
bunal par l'accord immdiat des Parties, il est procd de la manire suivante :
Chaque Partie nomme deux arbitres et ceux - ci choisissent ensemble un surarbitre.
En cas de partage des voix , le choix de surarbitre est confi  une Puissance tierce , dsigne de commun accord par les Parties.
Si l'accord ne s'tablit pas  ce sujet, chaque Partie dsigne une Puissance diffrente et el choix du surarbitre est fait de concert par les Puissances ainsi dsignes.
VOL XXXII , PT 2--36

The duties of Arbitrator may be Selection of arbitra tors.
conferred on one Arbitrator alone or on several Arbitrators selected by the parties as they please, or chosen by them from the members of the permanent Court of Arbitration established by the present Act.
Failing the constitution of the Disagreement.

Tribunal by direct agreement between the parties, the following
course shall be pursued : Each party appoints two arbi - Appointment of umpire.
trators, and these latter together choose an Umpire.

In case of equal voting, the Umpire.

choice of the Umpire is intrusted to a third Power, selected by the parties by common accord.
If no agreement is arrived at on this subject, each party selects a different Power, and the choice of

Selection by Powers.

the Umpire is made in concert by the Powers thus selected .

1794

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

ARTICLE 33.

ARTICLE XXXIII.

Procedure when

chief of State arbi- Lorsqu'un Souverain ou un Chef

trator.

d'Etat est choisi pour arbitre, la

procdure arbitrale est rgle par Lui.

When a Sovereign or the Chief of a State is chosen as Arbitrator. the arbitral procedure is settled by him.

ARTICLE 34.

ARTICLE XXXIV .

President of bunal.

tri- Le surarbitre est de droit Prsident du Tribunal.
Lorsque le Tribunal ne comprend pas de surarbitre il nomme lui-mme son prsident .

The Umpire is by right President of the Tribunal.
When the Tribunal does not in-
clude an Umpire it appoints its own President.

Vacancies.

ARTICLE 35.

ARTICLE XXXV.

En cas de dcs, de dmission
ou d'empchement, pour quelque cause que ce soit , de l'un des arbitres, il est pourvu  son remplacement selon le mode fix pour sa nomination .

In case of the death , retirement.
or disability from any cause of one of the Arbitrators , his place shall be filled in accordance with the method of his appointment.

Sessions.

ARTICLE 36.

ARTICLE XXXVI .

Le sige du Tribunal est dsign par les Parties. A dfaut de cette dsignation le Tribunal sige  la Haye.
Le sige ainsi fix ne peut, sauf le cas de force majeure, tre chang par le Tribunal que de l'assentiment des Parties.

The Tribunal's place of session is selected by the parties. Failing this selection the Tribunal sits at The Hague.
The place thus fixed cannot, except in case of necessity , be changed by the Tribunal without the assent of the parties.

ARTICLE 37.

ARTICLE XXXVII.

Agents. Counsel.

Les Parties ont le droit de nom mer auprs du Tribunal des dlgus ou agents spciaux, avec la mission de servir d'intermdiaires entre Elles et le Tribunal.
Elles sont en outre autorises  charger de la dfense de leurs droits et intrts devant le Tribunal, des conseils ou avocats nomms par Elles  cet effet.

The parties have the right to appoint delegates or special agents to attend the Tribunal, for the purpose of serving as intermediaries between them and the Tribunal.
They are further authorized to retain, for the defense of their rights and interests before the Tribunal, counsel or advocates appointed by them for this purpose.

ARTICLE 38.

ARTICLE XXXVIII.

Selection guage.

of lan- Le tribunal dcide du choix des langues dont il fera usage et dont l'emploi sera autoris devant lui.

The Tribunal decides on the
choice of languages to be used by itself, and to be authorized for use before it.

Procedure.

ARTICLE 39 .

ARTICLE XXXIX.

La procdure arbitrale com-

As a general rule the arbitral

prend en rgle gnrale deux procedure comprises two distinct

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION . JULY 29, 1899.

1795

phases distinctes : l'instruction et les dbats.
L'instruction consiste dans la
communication faite par les agents respectifs, aux membres du Tribunal et  la Partie adverse, de tous actes imprims ou crits et de tous documents contenant les
moyens invoqus dans la cause . Cette communication aura lieu dans la forme et dans les dlais
dtermins par le Tribunal en vertu de l'article 49.
Les dbats consistent dans le
dveloppement oral des moyens des Parties devant le Tribunal.

phases ; preliminary examination and discussion.
Preliminary examination con- Preliminary examination.
sists in the communication by the respective agents to the members
of the Tribunal and to the oppo-
site party of all printed or written Acts and of all documents contain-

ing the arguments invoked in the case. This communication shall

be made in the form and within

the periods fixed by the Tribunal in accordance with Article XLIX .
Discussion consists in the oral

Discussion .

development before the Tribunal of the arguments of the parties.

ARTICLE 40 .

ARTICLE XL .

Toute pice produite par l'une
des Parties doit tre communique  l'autre Partie.

Every

document

produced

Exchange of docuby ments.

one party must be communicated to the other party.

ARTICLE 41 .

ARTICLE XLI.

Les dbats sont dirigs par Prsident.
Ils ne sont publics qu'en vertu d'une dcision du Tribunal, prise avec l'assentiment des Parties.
Ils sont consigns dans des procs-verbaux rdigs par des secrtaires que nomme le Prsident. Ces procs-verbaux ont seuls caractre authentique.

The discussions are under the direction of the President.
They are only public if it be so
decided by the Tribunal, with the assent of the parties.
They are recorded in the procsverbaux drawn up by the Secretaries appointed by the President. These procs- verbaux alone have an authentic character.

Discussions. Public.
Record.

ARTICLE 42.

ARTICLE XLII .

L'instruction tant close, le Tribunal a le droit d'carter du dbat tous actes ou documents nouveaux
qu'une des Parties voudrait lui
soumettre sans le consentement de l'autre .

When the preliminary examina- Limiting discussions tion is concluded , the Tribunal has the right to refuse discussion of all fresh Acts or documents which one party may desire to submit to it without the consent of the other
party.

ARTICLE 43.

ARTICLE XLIII.

Le Tribunal demeure libre de prendre en considration les actes ou documents nouveaux sur les
quels les agents ou conseils des Parties appelleraient son attention .
En ce cas, le Tribunal a le droit
de requrir la production de ces actes ou documents, sauf l'obligation d'en donner connaissance  la Partie adverse.

The Tribunal is free to take into consideration fresh Acts or documents to which its attention
may be drawn by the agents or counsel of the parties.
In this case, the Tribunal has
the right to require the production of these Acts or documents , but is obliged to make them known to the opposite party.

New evidence.

1796

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

ARTICLE 44.

ARTICLE XLIV.

Production of all Le Tribunal peut, en outre , reacts.
qurir des agents des Parties la production de tous actes et demander toutes explications ncessaires. En cas de refus le Tribunal en prend acte.

The Tribunal can, besides, re-
quire from the agents of the parties the production of all Acts , and can demand all necessary explanations. In case of refusal, the Tribunal takes note of it.

Oral arguments.

ARTICLE 45 .

ARTICLE XLV.

Les agents et les conseils des Parties sont autoriss  prsenter oralement au Tribunal tous les
moyens qu'ils jugent utiles  la dfense de leur cause.

The agents and counsel of the parties are authorized to present orally to the Tribunal all the argu-
ments they may think expedient in defence of their case.

Rulings final.

ARTICLE 46.

ARTICLE XLVI.

Ils ont le droit de soulever des
exceptions et incidents. Les dcisions du Tribunal sur ces points sont dfinitives et ne peuvent donner lieu a aucune discussion ultrieure .

They have the right to raise objections and points. The decisions of the Tribunal on those points are final, and can not form the subject of any subsequent discussion.

ARTICLE 47.

ARTICLE XLVII .

Questions by Tribunal.

Les membres du Tribunal ont le

droit de poser des questions au

agents et aux conseils des Parties

et de leur demander des claircisse-

ments sur les points douteux.

Ni les questions poses, ni les

observations faites par les membres du Tribunal pendant le cours

des dbats ne peuvent tre regar-

des comme l'expression des opi-

nions du Tribunal en gnral ou de ses membres en particulier.

The members of the Tribunal
have the right to put questions to the agents and counsel of the parties, and to demand explanations from them on doubtful points.
Neither the questions put nor
the remarks made by members of the Tribunal during the discussions can be regarded as an expression of opinion by the Tribunal in general, or by its members in particular.

ARTICLE 48 .

ARTICLE XLVIII.

Competence of Triunal.

Le Tribunal est autoris  d-

terminer sa comptence en inter-

pretant le compromis ainsi que les

autres traits qui peuvent tre invoqus dans la matire , et en

appliquant les principes du droit international.

The Tribunal is authorized to
declare its competence in interpreting the " Compromis " as well as the other Treaties which may be invoked in the case, and in ap-
plying the principles of international law.

Special rules.

ARTICLE 49.

ARTICLE XLIX.

Le Tribunal a le droit de rendre
des ordonnances de procdure pour la direction du procs, de dterminer les formes et dlais dans lesquels chaque Partie devra prendre ses conclusions et de procder  toutes les formalits que comporte l'administration des preuves.

The Tribunal has the right to issue Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the case, to decide the forms and periods within which each party must conclude its arguments, and to arrange all the formalities required for dealing with the evidence.

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

1797

ARTICLE 50.

ARTICLE L.

Les agents et les conseils des Parties ayant prsent tous les claircissements et preuves  l'appui de leur cause, le Prsident prononce la clture des dbats.

When the agents and counsel of the parties have submitted all ex-
planations and evidence in support of their case, the President pronounces the discussion closed.

Closing discussion.

ARTICLE 51 .

ARTICLE LI.

Les dlibrations du Tribunal

The deliberations of the Tribu- Deliberations private.

ont lieu  huis clos . Toute dci- nal take place in private. Every

sion est prise  la majorit des decision is taken by a majority of

membres du Tribunal.

members of the Tribunal.

Le refus d'un membre de pren- The refusal of a member to vote

de part au vote doit tre constat must be recorded in the procs-

dans le procs- verbal .

verbal.

ARTICLE 52.

ARTICLE LII.

La sentence arbitrale, vote  la
majorit des voix, est motive. Elle est rdige par crit et signe par chacun des membres du Tribunal.
Ceux des membres qui sont rests en minorit peuvent constater, en signant, leur dissentiment.
ARTICLE 53.

The award, given by a majority of votes, is accompanied by a statement of reasons. It is drawn up
in writing and signed by each member of the Tribunal.
Those members who are in the minority may record their dissent when signing.
ARTICLE LIII.

Statement ofaward. Record of dissent.

La sentence arbitrale est lue en sance publique du Tribunal, les agents et les conseils de Parties prsents ou dment appels.

The award is read out at a public Announcing award. meeting of the Tribunal, the agents and counsel of the parties being present, or duly summoned to attend .

ARTICLE 54.

ARTICLE LIV.

La sentence arbitrale, dment
prononce et notifie aux agents des Parties en litige dcide dfinitivement et sans appel la contestation .
ARTICLE 55.

The award, duly pronounced and notified to the agents of the parties at variance, puts an end to the dispute definitely and without appeal.
ARTICLE LV .

Finality of award.

Les Parties peuvent se rserver
dans le compromis de demander la revision de la sentence arbitrale .
Dans ce cas et sauf convention contraire, la demande doit tre adresse au Tribunal qui a rendu la

The parties can reserve in the " Compromis " the right to demand the revision of the award.
In this case, and unless there be an agreement to the contrary, the demand must be addressed to

Right of revision . Grounds for revision.

sentence. Elle ne peut tre motive que par la dcouverte d'un fait nouveau qui et t de nature  exercer une influence dcisive

the Tribunal which pronounced the award. It can only be made on the ground of the discovery of some new fact calculated to exer-

sur la sentence et qui, lors de la clture des dbats , tait inconnu du tribunal lui- mme et de la Par. tie qui a demand la revision.

cise a decisive influence on the award, and which, at the time the discussion was closed , was unknown to the Tribunal and to the party demanding the revision.

1798

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29 , 1899.

Proceedings.

La procdure de revision ne peut tre ouverte que par une dcision du Tribunal constatant ex pressment l'existence du fait nouveau, lui reconnaissant les caractres prvus par le paragraphe prcdent et dclarant  ce titre la demande recevable .
Le compromis dtermine le dlai
dans lequel la demande de revision doit tre forme.

Proceedings for revision can only be instituted by a decision of
the Tribunal expressly recording the existence of the new fact, recognizing in it the character described in the foregoing paragraph, and declaring the demand admissible on this ground.
The " Compromis " fixes the period within which the demand for revision must be made.

ARTICLE 56.

ARTICLE LVI.

Parties bound by La sentence arbitrale n'est obliaward.

gatoire que pour les Parties qui

ont conclu le compromis.

Right of other Powers to intervene.

Lorsqu'il s'agit de l'interprta-

tion d'une convention  laquelle

ont particip d'autres Puissances

que les Parties en litige, celles - ci

notifient aux premires le compro-

mis qu'elles ont conclu. Chacune de ces Puissances a le droit d'in-

tervenir au procs. Si une ou

plusieurs d'entre elles ont profit de cette facult, l'interprtation

contenue dans la sentence est galement obligatoire  leur gard.

The award is only binding on
the parties who concluded the " Compromis."
When there is a question of interpreting a Convention to which Power other than those concerned in the dispute are parties , the latter notify to the former the " Compromis they have concluded. Each of these Powers has the right to intervene in the case. If one or more of them avail themselves of this right , the interpretation contained in the award is equally binding on them .

ARTICLE 57.

ARTICLE LVII.

Expenses.

Chaque Partie supporte ses pro-
pes frais et une part gale des frais du Tribunal.

Each party pays its own expenses and an equal share of those of the Tribunal.

Dispositions gnrales.

General provisions.

ARTICLE 58.

ARTICLE LVIII .

Ratification.

La prsente Convention sera

Deposit.

ratifie dans le plus bref dlai possible.
Les ratifications seront dposes

 la Haye.

Certified copies of ratifications.

Il sera dress du dpt de chaque

ratification un procs-verbal, dont

une copie, certifie conforme, sera

remise par la voie diplomatique 

toutes les Puissances, qui ont t

reprsentes  la Conference Internationale de la Paix de la Haye.

The present Convention shall be ratified as speedily as possible.
The ratifications shall be deposited at The Hague.
A procs-verbal shall be drawn up recording the receipt of each ratification, and a copy duly certified shall be sent, through the diplomatic channel, to all the Powers who were represented at the International Peace Confer-ence at The Hague.

ARTICLE 59.

ARTICLE LIX.

Adhesion by non- Les Puissances non signataires Signatory Powers.
qui ont t reprsentes  la Confrence Internationale de la Paix
pourront adhrer  la prsente

The non-Signatory Powers who were represented at the International Peace Conference can ad-
here to the present Convention.

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

1799

Convention. Elles auront  cet effet  faire connatre leur adh-
sion aux Puissances contractantes, au moyen d'une notification crite, adresse au Gouvernement des Pays - Bas et communique par celui-ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes .

For this purpose they must make known their adhesion to the Con-
tracting Powers by a written notification addressed to the Netherlands Government, and communicated by it to all the other Contracting Powers.

ARTICLE 60.

ARTICLE LX.

Les conditions auxquelles les
Puissances qui n'ont pas t reprsentes  la Confrence Internationale de la Paix, pourront adhrer  la prsente Convention , formeront l'objet d'une entente ultrieure entre les Puissances contractantes .

The conditions on which the Adhesion by Powers not represented.
Powers who were not represented at the International Peace Confer-
ence can adhere to the present Convention shall form the subject
of a subsequent Agreement among the Contracting Powers.

ARTICLE 61.

ARTICLE LXI.

S'il arrivait qu'une des Hautes Parties contractantes dnont la prsente Convention , cette dnonciation ne produirait ses effets qu'un an aprs la notification faite
par crit au Gouvernement des Pays-Bas et communique immdiatement par celui -ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes .
Cette dnonciation ne produira
ses effets qu' l'gard de la Puissance qui l'aura notifie.
En foi de quoi, les Plnipoten-
tiaires ont sign la prsente Convention et l'ont revtue de leurs Sceaux .
Fait  la Haye, le vingt- neuf juillet mil huit cent quatre-vingt dix-neuf, en un seul exemplaire qui restera dpos dans les archives du Gouvernement des PaysBas et dont des copies, certifies conformes, seront remises par la voie diplomatique aux Puissances contractantes . Pour l'Allemagne :
(L. S.) MUNSTER DERNEBURG. Pour l'Autriche- Hongrie :
(L. S. ) WELSERSHEIMB . (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI. Pour la Belgique : (L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. S. ) CTE DE GRELLE ROGIER. (L. S.) CHR DESCAMPS. Pour la Chine :
(L. S. ) YANG Yu. Pour le Danemark:
(L. 8.) F. BILLE.

In the event of one of the High Contracting Parties denouncing the present Convention, this denunciation would not take effect until a year after its notification
made in writing to the Netherlands Government , and by it communicated at once to all the other Contracting Powers.
This denunciation shall only af fect the notifying Power.
In faith of which the Plenipo-
tentiaries have signed the present Convention and affixed their seals to it.
Done at The Hague, the 29th July, 1899, in a single copy, which shall remain in the archives of the Netherlands Government, and
copies of it, duly certified , be sent through the diplomatic channel to the Contracting Powers
For Germany . (L. S. ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG.
For Austria- Hungary : (L. S. ) WELSERSHEIMB . (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI .
For Belgium : (L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. s. ) CTE. DE GRELLE ROGIER. (L. S. ) CHR. DESCAMPS .
For China: (L. 8.) YANG YU.
For Denmark: (L. S. ) F. BILLE.

Denunciation.
Deposit of original Signatures.

1800

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Pour l'Espagne : (L. S.) EL DUQUE DE TETUAN. (L. S. ) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA. (L. S. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER.
Pour les Etats -Unis d'Amrique : (L. S. ) ANDREW D. WHITE. (L. S. ) SETH Low. (L. S. ) STANFORD NEWEL. (L. S. ) A. T. MAHAN. (L. S. ) WILLIAM CROZIER.
Sous rserve de la dclaration faite dans la sance plnire de la Confrence de 25 juillet 1899.
Pour les Etats-Unis Mexicains : A. DE MIER. J. ZENIL.
Pour la France :
(L. s. ) LON BOURGEOIS. (L. S.) G. BIHOURD.  (L. S. ) D'ESTOURNELLES DE CON-
STANT.
Pour la Grande Bretagne et l'Irlande :
(L. S. ) PAUNCEFOTE. (L. S. ) HENRY HOWARD. Pour la Grce :
(L. S. ) N. DALYANNI. Pour l'Italie :
(L. S. ) NIGRA. (L. S. ) A. ZANNINI. (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ. Pour le Japon : (L. S. ) I. MOTONO. Pour le Luxembourg: (L. s. ) EYSCHEN. Pour le Montngro : (L. S. ) STAAL . Pour les Pays -Bas : (L. S.) V. KARNEBEEK.
(L. S. ) DEN BEER POORTUGAEL. (L. s. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. s . ) E. N. RAHUSEN. Pour la Perse : (L. S. ) MIRZA RISA KHAN, Arfa-
ud-Dovleh. Pour le Portugal :
(L. S. ) CONDE DE MACEDO. (L. S. ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNELLAS
DE VASCONCELLOS.
(L. s . ) CONDE DE SELIR. Pour la Roumanie :
(L. s. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S. ) J. N. PAPINIU. Sous les rserves, formules aux articles 16, 17 et 19 de la prsente Convention (15 , 16 et 18 du projet prsent par le Comit d'Examen) et consignes aux procs-verbal de la sance de la

For Spain: (L. S. ) EL DUQUE DE TETUAN. (L. S. ) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA. (L. S. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER.
For the United States of America : (L. S. ) ANDREW D. WHITE. (L. S. ) SETH LOW. (L. S.) STANFORD NEWEL. (L. S. ) A. T. MAHAN. (L. S. ) WILLIAM CROZIER.
Under reserve of the declaration made at the plenary sitting of the Conference on the 25th of July, 1899.
For the United Mexican States: (L. S. ) A. DE MIER. (L. S.) J. ZENIL.
For France :
(L. S. ) LON BOURGEOIS. (L. s. ) G. BIHOURD. (L. S. ) D'ESTOURNELLES DE CON-
STANT .
For Great Britain and Ireland :
(L. S. ) PAUNCEFOTE. (L. S. ) HENRY HOWARD. For Greece : (L. S. ) N. DELYANNI. For Italy: (L. S. ) NIGRA. (L. S. ) A. ZANNINI. (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ. For Japan: (L. S.) I. MOTONO. For Luxemburg :, (L. S. ) EYSCHEN. For Montenegro: (L. S.) STAAL. For the Netherlands : (L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. (L. S. ) DEN BEER POORTUGAEL. (L. S. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. s. ) E. N. RAHUSEN . For Persia : (L. S. ) MIRZA RIZA KHAN , Ar-
fa-ud- Dovleh. For Portugal:
(L. S. ) Conde DE MACEDO. (L. S. ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNELLAS
DE VASCONCELLOS. (L. 8. ) Conde DE SELIR. For Roumania : (L. S. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S. ) J. N. PAPINIU. Under the reserves formulated in Articles 16 , 17 and 19 of the present Convention ( 15, 16 and 18 of the project presented by the Committee on Examination) and recorded in the procs-

CONVENTION- INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION . JULY 29, 1899.

1801

Troisime Commission du 20
juillet 1899. Pour la Russie :
(L. S. ) STAAL . (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. S. ) A. BASILY . Pour la Serbie :
(L. S. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH. Sous les rserves, consignes au
procs-verbal de la Troisime Commission du 20 juillet 1899. Pour le Siam :
(L. S. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR. (L. S. ) VISUDDHA . Pour les Royaumes Unis de Sude
et de Norvge : (L. s . ) BILDT. Pour la Suisse : (L. S. ) ROTH . Pour la Turquie : (L. S. ) TURKHAN . (L. T. ) MEHEMED NOURY . Sous rserve de la dclaration faite dans la sance plnire de la Confrence du 25 juillet 1899. Pour la Bulgarie: (L. s. ) D. STANCIOFF. (L. S.) MAJOR HESSAPTCHIEFF.
Certifi pour copie conforme , Le Secrtaire Gnral du Dpartement des Affaires Etrangres ,
(L. S. ) L H RuYSSENAERS. LA HAYE, le 31 janvier 1900.

verbal of the sitting of the Third Commission of July 20, 1899. For Russia : (L. 8. ) STAAL. (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. S. ) A. BASILY. For Servia :
(L. S. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH . Under the reserves recorded in
the procs-verbal of the Third Commission of July 20, 1899 . For Siam : (L. S. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR. (L. S.) VISUDDHA.
For the United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway: (L. S. ) BILDT.
For Switzerland : (L. s. ) ROTH .
For Turkey: (L. S. ) TURKHAN . (L. S. ) MEHEMED NOURY.
Under reserve of the declaration
made in the plenary sitting of the Conference of July 25, 1899 . For Bulgaria:
(L. S. ) D. STANCIOFF. (L. s. ) Major HESSAPTCHIEFF. Certified as a true copy, The Secretary General of the Department of Foreign Affairs,
(L. S. ) L. H. RUYSSENAERS . THE HAGUE, January 31 , 1900.

And whereas the said Convention was signed by the Plenipotentiaries UnRietesderStvaatetsi. on by of the United States of America under reservation of the following
declaration :

" Nothing contained in this convention shall be so construed as to

require the United States of America to depart from its traditional policy of not intruding upon , interfering with, or entangling itself in the political questions or policy or internal administration of any foreign state; nor shall anything contained in the said convention be construed to imply a relinquishment by the United States of America of its traditional attitude toward purely American questions ; "
And whereas the said Convention was duly ratified by the Government ofthe United States of America , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Governments of the other Powers

Ratification.

aforesaid with the exception of China and Turkey ;

And whereas, in pursuance of the stipulations of Article LVIII of the said Convention the ratifications of the said Convention were depos-

ited at The Hague on the 4th. day of September, 1900, by the Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the United States of America , Germany,

Austria-Hungary , Belgium, Denmark, Spain , France, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Persia , Portugal, Roumania , Russia, Siam , Sweden and Norway and Bulgaria ; on the 6th. day of October, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Japan ; on the 16th . day of October, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Monte-

negro ; on the 29th . day of December, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Switzerland; on the 4th . day of April, 1901 , by the

Plenipotentiary of the Government of Greece; on the 17th . day of

1802

CONVENTION-INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION. JULY 29, 1899.

Proclamation .

April, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Mexico ; on the 11th. day of May, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Servia; and on the 12th. day of July, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Luxembourg.
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United States of America , have caused the said Convention to
be made public, to the end that the same and every clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof, subject to the reserve made in the aforesaid declaration of the Plenipotentiaries of the United States.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this first day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one, and of
[L. S. ] the Independence of the United States , the one hundred and twenty - sixth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY , Secretary of State.

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

1803

Convention between the United States of America and Certain Powers, with respect to the laws and customs of war on land. Signed at The Hague July 29, 1899; ratification advised by the Senate March 14, 1902; ratified by the President of the United States March 19, 1902; ratifications deposited with the Netherlands Government September 4, 1900; proclaimed April 11, 1902.

July 29, 1899.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION .

Whereas a Convention with respect to the laws and customs of war
on land was concluded and signed on July 29 , 1899, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, Germany , Austria-Hungary , Belgium , Denmark, Spain, Mexico , France , Great Britain and Ireland, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania , Russia, Servia, Siam, Sweden and Norway , Turkey, and Bulgaria, the original of which Convention, in the French language, is word for word as follows :

Preamble.

[Translation .]

CONVENTION WITH RESPECT TO THE LAWS AND CUSTOMS OF WAR ON LAND.

CONVENTION CONCERNANT LES LOIS ET COUTUMES DE LA GUERRE SUR TERRE .

His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King of Prussia ; His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia etc. , and Apostolic King of Hungary ; His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; His Majesty the King of Denmark; His Majesty the King of Spain and in His Name Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom ; the President of the United States of America; the President of the United Mexican States; the President of the French Republic ; Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India ; His Majesty the King of the Hellenes ; His Majesty the King of Italy; His Majestythe Emperor of Japan ; His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg, Duke of Nassau; His Highness the Prince of Monte-

Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Alle-
magne, Roi de Prusse ; Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Autriche , Roi de Bohme etc. et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie ; Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark; Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et en Son Nom Sa Majest la Reine- Rgente du Royaume ; le Prsident des Etats-Unis d'Amr-
ique ; le Prsident des Etats - Unis Mexicains ; le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise ; Sa Majest la Reine du Royaume-Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande , Impratrice des Indes; Sa Majest le Roi des Hellnes ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie ; Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon ; Son Altesse Royale le Grand-Duc de Luxembourg, Duc de Nassau ; Son Altesse le Prince de Montngro ; Sa Majest la Reine des Pays-Bas ;

Contracting parties.

1804

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

negro; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands ; His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Persia ; His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves etc.; His Majesty the King of Roumania ; His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias ; His Majesty the King of Servia; His Majesty the King of Siam; His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway ; His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans and His

Sa Majest Impriale le Schah de
Perse ; Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves etc.; Sa Majest le Roi de Roumanie; Sa Majest l'Empereur de Toutes les Russies ; Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie ; Sa Majest le Roi de Siam ; Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge; Sa Majest l'Empereur des Ottomans et Son Altesse Royale le Prince de Bulgarie

Royal Highness the Prince of

Bulgaria .

Purposes of convention .

Considering that, while seeking

means to preserve peace and pre-

vent armed conflicts among na-

tions, it is likewise necessary to

have regard to cases where an ap-

peal to arms may be caused by

events which their solicitude could not avert;

Animated by the desire to serve,

Considrant que, tout en recherchant les moyens de sauvegarder la paix et de prvenir les conflits arms entre les nations, il importe de se proccuper galement du cas o l'appel aux armes serait amen par des vnements que Leur sollicitude n'aurait pu dtourner ;
Anims du dsir de servir en-

even in this extreme hypothesis, the interests of humanity and the ever increasing requirements of civilization ;
Thinking it important, with this object, to revise the laws and general customs of war, either with the view of defining them more precisely, or of laying down certain limits for the purpose of modifying their severity as far as possible:
Inspired by these views which
are enjoined at the present day, as they were twenty-five years ago at

core, dans cette hypothse extrme, les intrts de l'humanit et les exigences toujours progressives de la civilisation ;
Estimant qu'il importe,  cette fin, de reviser les lois et coutumes gnrales de la guerre, soit dans le but de les dfinir avec plus de prcision , soit afin d'y tracer certaines limites destines  en restreindre autant que possible les rigueurs;
S'inspirant de ces vues recommandes aujourd'hui , comme il y a vingt-cinq ans, lors de la Con-

the time of the Brussels Conference in 1874, by a wise and generous foresight;
Have, in this spirit, adopted a great number of provisions, the object of which is to define and govern the usages of war on land .
In view of the High Contracting

frence de Bruxelles de 1874, par une sage et gnreuse prvoyance ;
Ont, dans cet esprit , adopt un grand nombre de dispositions qui ont pour objet de dfinir et de rgler les usages de la guerre sur terre.
Selon le vues des Hautes Par-

Parties, these provisions, the wording of which has been inspired by the desire to diminish the evils of

ties contractantes, ces dispositions, dont la rdaction a t inspire par le dsir de diminuer les maux de

war so far as military necessities permit, are destined to serve as general rules of conduct for belligerents in their relations with each other and with populations.
It has not, however, been possible to agree forthwith on provisions

la guerre, autant que les ncessits militaires le permettent, sont destines  servir de rgle gnrale de conduite aux belligrants, dans leurs rapports entre eux et avec les populations.
Il n'a pas t possible toutefois de concerter ds maintenant des

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

1805

embracing all the circumstances which occur in practice.
On the other hand, it could not be intended by the High Contracting Parties that the cases not provided for should, for want of a written provision, be left to the arbitrary judgment of the military Commanders .
Until a more complete code of the laws of war is issued , the High Contracting Parties think it right to declare that in cases not included in the Regulations adopted by them, populations and belligerents remain under the protection and empire of the principles of international law, as they result from the usages established between civilized nations, from the laws of humanity, and the requirements of the public conscience ;
They declare that it is in this sense especially that Articles I and II of the Regulations adopted must be understood;
The High Contracting Parties , desiring to conclude a Convention to this effect, have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, to-wit :-
His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King of Prussia : His Excellency Count de Munster, Prince of Derneburg, His Ambassador at Paris.
His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia, etc. , and Apostolic King of Hungary : His Excellency Count R. de Welsersheimb, His Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ; Mr. Alexander Okolicsanyi d'Okoliesna, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of the Belgians : His Excellency Mr. Auguste Beernaert, His Minister of State, President of the Chamber of Representatives ; Count de Grelle Rogier, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague ; the Cheva lier Descamps , Senator.
His Majesty the King of Denmark: His Chamberlain Fr. E. de

stipulations s'tendant  toutes les circonstances qui se prsentent dans la pratique.
D'autre part, il ne pouvait entrer dans les intentions des Hautes Parties Contractantes que les cas non prvus fussent, faute de stipulation crite , laisses  l'apprciation arbitraire de ceux qui dirigent les armes .
En attendant qu'un code plus complet des lois de la guerre puisse tre dict, les Hautes Parties Contractantes jugent oppertun de constater que, dans les cas non compris dans les dispositions rglementaires adoptes par Elles, les populations et les belligrants restent sous la sauveguarde et sous l'empire des principes du droit des gens, tels qu'ils rsultent des usages tablis entre nations civilises, des lois de l'humanti et des exigences de la conscience publique.
Elles dclarent que c'est dans ce sens que doivent s'entendre notamment les articles un et deux du Rglement adopt;
Les Hautes Parties contrac-
tantes dsirant conclure une Convention  cet effet ont nomm pour
Leurs plnipotentiaires, savoir :
Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Allemagne, Roi de Prusse : Son Excellence le Comte de Mnster, Prince de Derneburg, Son Ambassadeur  Paris.
Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Autriche, Roi de Bohme etc. , et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie: Son Excellence le Comte R. de Welsersheimb, Son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plnipotentiaire. M. Alexandre Okolicsanyi d'Okolicsna , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Sa Majest le Roi des Belges : Son Excellence M. Auguste Beernaert, Son Ministre d'tat , Prsident de la Chambre des Reprsentants. M. le Comte Degrelle Rogier, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye. M. le Chevalier Descamps, Snateur.
Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark: Son Chambellan Fr. E. de Bille , Son

Plenipotentiaries.

1806

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

Bille, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London.
His Majesty the King of Spain and in His Name, Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom : His Excellency the Duke of Tetuan, former Minister for Foreign Affairs ; Mr. W. Ramirez de Villa Urrutia, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels ; Mr. Arthur de Baguer, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
The President of the United
States of America : Mr. Stanford Newell, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
The President of the United Mexican States : Mr. de Mier, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris ; Mr. Zenil , Minister Resident at Brussels .
The President of the French Re-
public : Mr. Lon Bourgeois, former President of the Council, former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Member of the Chamber of Deputies; Mr. Georges Bihourd, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague ; the Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, Minister Plenipotentiary, Member of the Chamber of Deputies.
Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India : His Excellency the Right Honorable Baron Pauncefote of Preston , Member of Her Majesty's Privy Council, Her Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Washington; Sir Henry Howard, Her Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague .
His Majesty the King of the Hellenes : Mr. N. Delyanni, former President of the Council, former Minister for Foreign Affairs,
His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris.
His Majesty the King of Italy: His Excellency Count Nigra, His Ambassador at Vienna, Senator of the Kingdom; Count A. Zannini , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The

Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres.
Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et en Son Nom, Sa Majest la ReineRgente du Royaume : Son Excellence le Duc de Tetuan , Ancien Ministre des Affaires Etrangres. M. W. Ramirez de Villa Urrutia, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles . M. Arthur de Baguer, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Le Prsident des tats - Unis
d'Amrique : M. Stanford Newel, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Le Prsident des tats-Unis Mexicains : M. de Mier, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris. M. Zenil, Ministre - Rsident  Bruxelles.
Le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise . M. Lon Bourgeois, Ancien Prsident du Conseil, Ancien Ministre des Affaires Etrangres, Membre de la Chambre des Dputs. M. Georges Bihourd, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye. M. le Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, Ministre plenipotentiaire, Membre de la Chambre des Dputs.
Sa Majest la Reine du RoyaumeUni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indes : Son Excelience le Trs Honorable Baron Pauncefote de Preston , Membre du Conseil Priv de Sa Majest, Son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plnipotentiaire  Washington . Sir Henry Howard , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiare  la Haye.
Sa Majest le Roi des Hellnes. M. N. Delyani , Ancien Prsident du Conseil, Ancien Ministre des Affaires Etrangres, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris.
Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie: Son Excellence le Comte Nigra, Son Ambassadeur  Vienne , Snateur du Royaume. M. le Comte A. Zannini , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

Hague; Commander Guido Pom-  la Haye. M. le Commandeur

pilj , Deputy in the Italian Parlia- Guido Pompilj , Dput au Parle-

ment.

ment Italien .

His Majesty the Emperor of Japan : Mr. I. Motono, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels.
His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg, Duke of Nassau: His Excellency Mr. Eyschen, His Minister of State, Pres ident of the Grand Ducal Government.

Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon : M. I. Motono, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles.
Son Altesse Royale le Grand Duc de Luxembourg, Duc de Nassau : Son Excellence M. Eyschen , Son Ministre d'Etat , Prsident du Gouvernement Grand-Ducal .

His Highness the Prince of Son Altesse le Prince de Mont-

Montenegro : His Excellency Mr. de Staal, Privy Councillor, Ambassador of Russia at London .

ngro : Son Excellence M. le Conseiller Priv Actuel de Staal, Ambassadeur de Russie  Londres.

Her Majesty the Queen of the Sa Majest la Reine des PaysNetherlands : the Jonkheer A. P. Bas : M. le Jonkheer A. P. C. van-

C. van Karnebeek, former Minister Karnebeek, Ancien Ministre des

of Foreign Affairs , Member of the Second Chamber of the StatesGeneral; General J. C. C. den

Affaires Etrangres, Membre de la Seconde Chambre des EtatsGnraux. M. le Gnral J. C. C.

Beer Poortugael, former Minister of War, Member of the Council of State ; Mr. T. M. C. Asser, Member of the Council of State ; Mr. E. N. Rahusen , Member of the First Chamber of the States- General.

den Beer Poortugael, Ancien Ministre de la Guerre, Membre du Conseil d'Etat. M. T. M. C. Asser, Membre du Conseil d'Etat. M. E. N. Rahusen, Membre de la Premire Chambre des Etats -Gnraux .

His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Persia: His Aid-de-Camp General Mirza Riza Khan, Arfa-udDovleh, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and at Stockhoim.
His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves , etc .: Count de Macedo, Peer of the Kingdom , former Minister of Marine and of the Colonies , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Madrid ; Mr. d'Ornellas et Vasconcellos , Peer of the Kingdom , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg ; Count de Selir, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of Roumania : Mr. Alexander Beldiman , His Envoy Extraordinary and

Sa Majest Impriale le Schah de Perse : Son Aide de Camp Gnral Mirza Riza Khan , Arfa-UdDovleh, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. -Ptersbourg et  Stockholm .
Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves, etc.: M. le Comte de Macedo, Pair du Royaume, Ancien Ministre de la Marine et des Colonies, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Madrid. M. d'Ornellas et Vasconcellos , Pair du Royaume , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg. M. le Comte de Selir, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Sa Majest le Roi de Roumanie : M. Alexandre Beidiman, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre

Minister Plenipotentiary at Berlin ; Mr. Jean N. Papiniu , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias: His Excellency Mr. de Staal, Privy Councillor, His

plnipotentiaire  Berlin . M. Jean N. Papiniu , Son envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiarre  la Haye.
Sa Majest l'Empereur de toutes les Russies : Son Excellence M. le Conseiller Priv Actuel de Staal ,

1807

1808

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

Ambassador at London ; Mr. de Son Ambassadeur  Londres. M. Martens, Permanent Member of de Martens, Membre Permanent

the Council of the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs, His Privy Councillor ; Mr. de Basily, His Councillor of State, Chamberlain, Director of the First Department

du Conseil du Ministre Imprial des Affaires Etrangres, Son Conseiller Priv. Son Conseiller d'Etat Actuel de Basily, Chambellan, Directeur du Premier D-

of the Imperial Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
His Majesty the King of Servia : Mr. Miyatovitch, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London and at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of Siam : Phya Suriya Nuvatr, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and at Paris ; Phya Visuddha Suri yasakti, His Envoy Extraordinary

partement du Ministre Imprial des Affaires Etrangres.
Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie : M. Miyatovitch, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres et  la Haye.
Sa Majest le Roi de Siam: M. Phya Suriya Nuvatr, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. - Ptersbourg et  Paris. M. Phya Visuddha Suriyasakti , Son Envoy extraordi-

and Minister Plenipotentiary at naire et Ministre plnipotentiaire

The Hague and at London.

 la Haye et  Londres.

His Majesty the King of Sweden

Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et

and Norway: the Baron de Bildt, de Norvge: M. le Baron de Bildt,

His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Rome.
His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans: His Excellency Turkhan Pasha, former Minister of

Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Rome.
Sa Majest l'Empereur des Ottomans : Son Excellence Turkhan Pacha, Ancien Ministre des Af-

Foreign Affairs , Member of His Council of State; Noury Bey, Secretary General in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
His Royal Highness the Prince of Bulgaria : Dr. Dimitri Stancioff, Diplomatic Agent at St. Petersburg; Major Christo Hessaptchieff, Military Attach at Belgrade.
Who, after communication of
their full powers, found in good and due form , have agreed on the following:-

faires Etrangres, Membre de Son Conseil d'Etat. Noury Bey , Secrtaire- Gnral au Ministre des Affaires Etrangres.
Son Altesse Royale le Prince
de Bulgarie : M. le Dr. Dimitri Stancioff, Agent Diplomatique  St. - Ptersbourg. M. le Major Christo Hessaptchieff, Attach Militaire  Belgrade.
Lesquels, aprs s'tre communiqu leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouvs en bonne et due forme, sont convenus de ce qui suit :

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE 1 .

Instructions to

armed land forces.

The High Contracting Parties

shall issue instructions to their

Post, p. 1811.

armed land forces, which shall be in conformity with the " Regula-

tions respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land " annexed to the present Convention.

Les Hautes Parties contractantes donneront  leurs forces armes de
terre des instructions qui seront conformes au Rglement concernant les lois et coutumes de la guerre sur terre, annex  la prsente Convention .

Powers bound.

ARTICLE II .

ARTICLE 2.

The provisions contained in the Regulations mentioned in Article I are only binding on the Contract-

Les dispositions contenues dans le Rglement vis  l'article premier ne sont obligatoires que pour

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899 .

1809

ing Powers, in case of war between two or more of them.
These provisions shall cease to be binding from the time when , in awarbetween Contracting Powers , a non-Contracting Power joins one of the belligerents.

les Puissances contractantes , en cas de guerre entre deux ou plusieurs d'entre elles.
Ces dispositions cesseront d'tre obligatoires du moment o, dans une guerre entre des Puissances contractantes , une Puissance non contractante se joindrait  l'un des belligrants.

Exemption.

ARTICLE III.

ARTICLE 3.

The present Convention shall be ratified as speedily as possible.
The ratifications shall be deposited at The Hague.
A procs-verbal shall be drawn up recording the receipt of each ratification, and a copy, duly certified, shall be sent through the diplomatic channel, to all the Contracting Powers .

La prsente Convention sera Ratification.

ratifie dans le plus bref dlai possible.
Les ratifications seront dposes  la Haye.

Deposit.

Il sera dress du dpt de chaque raCteifritciaftiieodn. copies of ratification un procs-verbal , dont une copie, certifie conforme, sera remise par la voie diplomatique  toutes les Puissances contrac-
tantes .

ARTICLE IV.

ARTICLE 4.

Non - Signatory Powers are allowed to adhere to the present Convention.
For this purpose they must make their adhesion known to the Con-
tracting Powers by means of a written notification , addressed to the Netherlands Government, and byit communicated to all the other Contracting Powers.

Les Puissances non signataires Adhesion of Nonsont admises  adhrer  la prsente Signatory Powers. Convention .
Elles auront,  cet effect,  Notification.
faire connatre leur adhsion aux Puissances contractantes, au
moyen d'une notification crite , adress au Gouvernement des Pays-Bas et communique par celui-ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes .

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE 5 .

In the event of one of the High Contracting Parties denouncing the present Convention, such denunciation would not take effect until a year after the written notification made to the Netherlands Government, and by it at once communicated to all the other Contracting Powers.
This denunciation shall affect only the notifying Power.
In faith of which the Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention and affixed their seals thereto .
Done atThe Hague the 29th July 1899, in a single copy , which shall be kept in the archives of the Netherlands Government, and
copies of which, duly certified , VOL XXXII , PT 2--37

S'il arrivait qu'une des Hautes Parties contractantes dnont la prsente Convention , cette denonciation ne produirait ses effets qu'un an aprs la notification faite par crit au Gouvernement des Pays- Bas et communique immdiatement par celui - ci  toutes les antres Puissances contractantes .

Denunciation .

Cette denonciation ne produira To affect only notises effets qu' l'gard de la Puis- fying Power,

sance qui l'aura notifie .

En foi de quoi , les plnipotentiaires ont sign la prsente Convention et l'ont revtue de leurs cachets .

Fait  la Haye, le vingt neuf juillet mil huit cent quatre-vingt dix-neuf, en un seul exemplaire qui restera dpos dans les archives du Gouvernement des Pays- Bas et

Deposit of original.

1810 Signatures.

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

shall be delivered to the Contracting Powers through the diplomatic channel .
For Germany:
(Signed) MUNSTER DERNEBURG. For Austria-Hungary :
(Signed) WELSERSHEIMB. OKOLICSANYI.
For Belgium : (Signed) A. BEERNAERT.
CTE. DE GRELLE ROGIER.
CHR. DESCAMPS. For Denmark: (Signed) F. BILLE . For Spain: (Signed) EL DUQUE DE TETUAN.
W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA.
ARTURO DE BAGUER. For the United States of Amer-
ica :
(Signed) STANFORD NEWEL. For the United Mexican States :
(Signed) M. DE MIER. J. ZENIL.
For France : (Signed) LON BOURGEOIS .
G. BIHOURD . D'ESTOURNELLES DE
CONSTANT. For Great Britain and Ireland :
(Signed) PAUNCEFOTE. HENRY HOWARD.
For Greece: (Signed) N. DELYANNI.
For Italy: (Signed) NIGRA.
A. ZANNINI. G. POMPILJ. For Japan : (Signed) I. MOTONO. For Luxemburg: (Signed) EYSCHEN. For Montenegro : (Signed) STAAL. For the Netherlands :
(Signed) v . KARNEBEEK. DEN BEER POORTUGAEL. T. M. C. ASSER. E. N. RAHUSEN.
For Persia : (Signed) MIRZA RIZA KHHAANN,,
Arfa-ud-Dovleh . For Portugal: (Signed) CONDE DE MACEDO .
AGOSTINHO D'ORNELLAS DE VASCONCELLOS .
CONDE DE SELIR.

dont des copies, certifies conformes, seront remises par la voie diplomatique aux Puissances contractantes .
Pour l'Allemagne :
(L. s . ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG. Pour l'Autriche- Hongrie :
(L. S. ) WELSERSHEIMB . (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI.
Pour la Belgique : (L. s. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. S. ) CTE. DE GRELLE ROGIER. (L. S. ) CHR. DESCAMPS .

Pour le Danemark: (L. S.) F. BILLE.
Pour l'Espagne : (L. s. ) El DUQUE DE TETUAN. (L. s. ) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA. (L. S.) ARTURO DE BAGUER.

Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amrique :

(L. S.) STANFORD NEWEL . Pour les Etats -Unis Mexicains:

(L. S. ) M. DE MIER. (L. 8.) J. ZENIL.
Pour la France : (L. S.) LON BOURGEOIS. (L. S. ) G. BIHOURD.

(L. S. ) D'ESTOUrnelles de CONSTANT .

Pour la Grande- Bretagne et l'Irlande :

(L. S. ) PAUNCEFOTE. (L. S. ) HENRY HOWARD.
Pour la Grce : (L. S. ) N. DeLYANNI .
Pour l'Italie: (L. S. ) NIGRA. (L. S.) A. ZANNINI. (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ.
Pour le Japon: (L. S.) I. MOTONO.
Pour le Luxembourg :

(L. S.) EYSCHEN. Pour le Montngro :
(L. S. ) STAAL . Pour les Pays -Bas :
(L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. (L. S.) DEN BEER POORTUGAEL. (L. S. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. S. ) E. N. RAHUSEN.
Pour la Perse :

(L. S. ) MIRZA RIZA KHAN Arvaud - Dovleh .
Pour le Portugal:

(L. S. ) (L. S. )

CONDE DE MACEDO.
AGOSTINO D'ORNELLAS DE VASCONCELLOS .

(L. S. ) CONDE de Selir.

CONVENTION- WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

For Roumania :
(Signed) A. BELDIMAN. J. N. PAPINIU.
For Russia : (Signed) STAAL .
MARTENS . A. BASILY. For Servia :

Pour la Roumanie :
(L. s. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S.) J. N. PAPINIU.
Pour la Russie :
(L. S. ) STAAL. ( L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. S. ) A. BASILY.
Pour la Serbie:

(Signed) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH. (L. S. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH .

For Siam :

Pour le Siam :

(Signed) PHYA SURIA NUVATR. VISUDDHA.
For the United Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway :
(Signed) BILDT. For Turkey :
(Signed) TURKHAN. MEHEMED NOURY.
For Bulgaria :
(Signed) D. STANCIOFF. MAJOR HESSAPTCHIEFF .

(L. S. ) PHYA SURIA NUVATR. (L. S.) VISUDDHA.
Pour les Royaumes Unis de Sude et Norvge :
(L. 8. ) BILDT. Pour la Turquie :
(L. S. ) TURKHAN . (L. S. ) MEHEMED NOURY.
Pour la Bulgarie : (L. S. ) D. STANCIOFF.
(L. S.) MAJOR HESSAPTSCHIEFF .

Certifi pour copie conforme, Le Secrtaire Gnral du Dpartement des Affaires Etrangres,
LH RUYSSENAERS,
LA HAYE, le 31 janvier 1900.

1811

ANNEXE.

REGULATIONS RESPECTING THE LAWS AND CUSTOMS OF WAR ON LAND.

RGLEMENT CONCERNANT LES LOIS ET COUTUMES DE LA GUERRE SUR TERRE .

Regulations.

SECTION I.--ON BELLIGERENTS. SECTION

I. -DES RANTS .

BELLIG- Belligerents.

CHAPTER I. - On the Qualifica- CHAPITRE I. - De la qualit de Qualifications.

tions of Belligerents.

belligrant.

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE 1 .

The laws, rights, and duties of war apply not only to armies, but also to militia and volunteer corps , fulfilling the following conditions:
1. To be commanded by a person responsible for his subordinates ;
2. To have a fixed distinctive emblem recognizable at a distance ;
3. To carry arms openly; and
4. To conduct their operations in accordance with the laws and customs of war.

Les lois , les droits et les devoirs
de la guerre ne s'appliquent pas seulement  l'arme, mais encore aux milices et aux corps de volontaires runissant les conditions suivantes :
1. d'avoir  leur tte une per-
sonne responsable pour ses subordonns ;
2. d'avoir un signe distinctif fixe et reconnaissable  distance ;
3. de porter les armes ouvertement et
4. de se conformer dans leurs oprations aux lois et coutumes de Ja guerre.

Laws, etc. , of war. Application of,

1812

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

In countries where militia or volunteer corps constitute the army, or form part of it, they are included under the denomination "army. "

Dans les pays o les milices ou
des corps de volontaires constituent l'arme ou en font partie , ils sont compris sous la dnomination d'arme.

ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE 2 .

Unorganized belligerents.

The population of a territory

which has not been occupied who,

on the enemy's approach, spon-

taneously take up arms to resist

the invading troops without hav-

ing time to organize themselves

in accordance with Article I, shall

be regarded a belligerent, if they

respect the laws and customs of war.

ARTICLE III.

La population d'un territoire non occup qui,  l'approche de l'ennemi, prend spontanment les armes pour combattre les troupes d'invasion sans avoir eu le temps de s'organiser conformment  l'article premier, sera considre comme belligrante si elie respecte les lois et coutumes de la guerre.
ARTICLE 3.

Combatants and non-combatants.

The armed forces of the bellig-

erent parties may consist of combatants and non-combatants . In

case of capture by the enemy both

have a right to be treated as prisoners of war.

Les forces armes des parties
belligrantes peuvent se composer de combattants et de non-combattants. En cas de capture par
l'ennemi , les uns et les autres ont droit au traitement des prisonniers de guerre.

Prisoners of war.

CHAPTER II. - On Prisoners of CHAPITRE II. -Des prisonniers de

War.

guerre.

ARTICLE 4 .

Government con- Prisoners of war are in the power trols, not captors.
of the hostile Government, but not

Treatment.

in that of the individuals or corps who captured them.
They must be humanely treated.

Personal belongings.

All their personal belongings,

except arms , horses, and military

papers remain their property.

Les prisonniers de guerre sont
au pouvoir du Gouvernement ennemi, mais non des individus ou des corps qui les ont capturs.
Ils doivent tre traits avec humanit .
Tout ce qui leur appartient per-
sonnellement, except les armes, les chevaux et les papiers militaires, reste leur proprit.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE 5 .

Imprisonment.

Prisoners of war may be in-
terned in a town , fortress , camp, or any other locality, and bound not to go beyond certain fixed limits ; but they can only be confined as an indispensable measure of safety .

Les prisonniers de guerre peuvent tre assujettis  l'internement dans une ville, forteresse, camp ou localit quelconque, avec obligation de ne pas s'en loigner au del de certaines limites dtermines ;
mais ils ne peuvent tre enferms que par mesure de sret indis-
pensable .

ARTICLE VI.

ARTICLE 6.

Employment of prisoners.

The State may utilize the labor

of prisoners of war according to

their rank and aptitude. Their

I'Etat peut employer, comme travailleurs, les prisonniers de guerre, selon leur grade et leurs

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1813

tasks shall not be excessive , and shall have nothing to do with the military operations.
Prisoners may be authorized to work for the Public Service, for private persons , or on their own account.
Work done for the State shall be paid for according to the tariffs in force for soldiers of the national army employed on similar tasks.
When the work is for other branches of the Public Service or for private persons, the conditions shall be settled in agreement with the military authorities .
The wages of the prisoners shall go towards improving their position , and the balance shall be paid them at the time of their release, after deducting the cost of their maintenance.

aptitudes. Ces travaux ne seront pas excessifs et n'auront aucun rapport avec les oprations de la guerre .
Les prisonniers peuvent tre autoriss  travailler pour le compte d'administrations publiques ou de particuliers, ou pour leur propre compte .
Les travaux faits pour l'Etat sont pays d'aprs les tarifs en viguer pour les militaires de l'arme nationale excutant les mmes travaux.
Lorsque les travaux ont lieu.
pour le compte d'autres adminis trations publiques ou pour des particuliers , les conditions en sont rgles d'accord avec l'autorit militaire.
Le salaire des prisonniers contribuera  adoucir leur position , et le surplus leur sera compt au moment de leur libration, sauf dfalcation des frais d'entretien .

Service. Wages.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE 7.

The Government into whose hands prisoners of war have fallen is bound to maintain them.
Failing a special agreement between the belligerents, prisoners of war shall be treated as regards food, quarters, and clothing, on the same footing as the troops of the Government which has captured them .

Le Gouvernement au pouvoir duquel se trouvent les prisonniers de guerre est charg de leur entretien .
A dfaut d'une entente spciale
entre les belligrants , les prisonniers de guerre seront traits, pour la nourriture, le couchage et l'habillement, sur le mme pied que les troupes du Gouvernement qui les aura capturs.

Maintenance. Food, etc.

ARTICLE VIII .

ARTICLE 8.

Prisoners of war shall be sub-
ject to the laws , regulations , and orders in force in the army of the State into whose hands they have fallen.

Les prisonniers de guerre seront
soumis aux lois, rglements, et ordres en vigueur dans l'arme de l'Etat au pouvoir duquel ils se trouvent. Tout acte d'insubordi-

Subject to laws, etc. Insubordination .

Any act of insubordination warrants the adoption, as regards them , of such measures of severity

nation autorise ,  leur gard, les mesures de rigueur ncessaires.

as may be necessary. Escaped prisoners , recaptured
before they have succeeded in rejoining their army, or before quitting the territory occupied by the army that captured them, are liable to disciplinary punishment.
Prisoners who, after succeeding in escaping are again taken pris-

Recaptured prisonLes prisonniers vads, qui se- ers. raient repris avant d'avoir pu
rejoindre leur arme ou avant de
quitter le territoire occup par l'arme qui les aura capturs, sont passibles de peines disciplinaires .
Les prisonniers qui, aprs avoir russi  s'vader , sont de nouveau

1814

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

oners, are not liable to any punishment for the previous flight.

faits prisonniers, ne sont passibles d'aucune peine pour la fuite antrieure .

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE 9 .

Restriction for false

tatements.

Every prisoner of war, if ques-

tioned, is bound to declare his true

name and rank, and if he disregards

this rule , he is liable to a curtail-

ment of the advantages accorded

to the prisoners of war of his class .

Chaque prisonnier de guerre est tenu de dclarer, s'il est interrog  ce sujet, ses vritables noms et grade et, dans le cas o il enfreindrait cette rgle, il s'exposerait  une restriction des avantages accords aux prisonniers de guerre de sa catgorie .

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE 10 .

Parole.

Prisoners of war may be set at liberty on parole if the laws of their country authorize it, and, in such a case, they are bound, on their personal honour, scrupulously to fulfill, both as regards their own Government and the Government by whom they were made prisoners, the engagements they have contracted.

Service during pa- In such

role.

cases , their own Govern-

ment shall not require of nor ac-

cept from them any service incom-

patible with the parole given .

Les prisonniers de guerre peu-
vent tre mis en libert sur parole, si les lois de leur pays les y autorisent, et, en pareil cas, ils sont obligs , sous la garantie de leur honneur personnel , de remplir scrupuleusement, tant vis- - vis de leur propre Gouvernement que vis-  - vis de celui qui les a faits prisonniers , les engagements qu'ils auraient contracts.
Dans le mme cas, leur propre
Gouvernement est tenu de n'exigcr ni accepter d'eux aucun service contraire  la parole donne.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTICLE 11 .

Parole must be vol-

untary .

A prisoner of war can not be

forced to accept his liberty on

parole; similarly the hostile Gov-

ernment is not obliged to assent to

the prisoner's request to be set at

liberty on parole.

ARTICLE XII.

Un prisonnier de guerre ne peut tre contraint d'accepter sa libert sur parole ; de mme le Gouvernement ennemi n'est pas oblig d'accder  la demande du prisonnier rclamane sa mise en libert sur
parole.
ARTICLE 12.

Recapture after pa-

role.

Any prisoner of war, who is lib-

erated on parole and recaptured,

bearing arms against the Govern-

ment to whom he had pledged his

honor, or against the allies of that

Government, forfeits his right to

be treated as a prisoner of war, and

can be brought before the Courts.

Tout prisonnier de guerre, li-
br sur parole et repris portant les armes contre le Gouvernement envers lequel il s'tait engag d'honneur, ou contre les allis de
celui-ci, perd le droit au traitement des prisonniers de guerre et peut tre traduit devant les tribunaux .

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTICLE 13 .

Reporters, etc.

sutlers, Individuals who follow an army without directly belonging to it, such as newspaper correspondents and reporters, sutlers , contractors,

Les individus qui suivent une arme sans en faire directement partie, tels que les correspondants et les reporters de journaux, les

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1815

who fall into the enemy's hands, and whom the latter think fit to detain, have a right to be treated as prisoners of war, provided they can produce a certificate from the military authorities of the army they were accompanying.

vivandiers, les fournisseurs , qui tombent au pouvoir de l'ennemi et que celui-ci juge utile de dtenir , ont droit au traitement des prisonniers de guerre,  condition qu'ils soient munis d'une lgitimation de l'autorit militaire de l'arme qu'ils accompagnaient.

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTICLE 14.

A Bureau for information rela-
tive to prisoners of war is instituted, on the commencement of hostilities, in each of the belligerent States, and, when necessary, in the neutral countries on whose territory belligerents have been received. This Bureau is intended to answer all inquiries about prisoners of war, and is furnished by the various services concerned with all the necessary information to enable it to keep an individual return for each prisoner of war. It is kept informed of interments and changes, as well as of admissions into hospital and deaths.
It is also the duty of the Infor mation Bureau to receive and collect all objects of personal use, valuables, letters, &c. , found on the battlefields or left by prisoners who have died in hospital or am-
bulance, and to transmit them to those interested .

Il est constitu, ds le dbut des Bureau of information as to prisoners.
hostilits , dans chacun des Etats belligrants et, le cas chant , dans les pays neutres qui auront recueilli des belligrants sur leur territoire, un Bureau de renseignements sur les prisonniers de guerre. Ce bureau, charg de rpondre 
toutes les demandes qui les concernent, reoit des divers services comptents toutes les indications ncessaires pour lui permettre d'tablir une fiche individuelle pour chaque prisonnier de guerre. Il
est tenu au courant des internements et des mutations , ainsi que des entres dans les hpitaux et des dcs.
Le Bureau de renseignements
est galement charg de recueillir et de centraliser tous les objets d'un usage personnel, valeurs, let-
tres, etc. , qui seront trouvs sur les champs de bataille ou dlaisss
par des prisonniers dc ds dans les hpitaux et ambulances, et de les transmettre aux intresss .

ARTICLE XV.

ARTICLE 15.

Relief Societies for prisoners of war, which are regularly constituted in accordance with the law
of the country with the object of serving as the intermediary for charity, shall receive from the belligerents for themselves and their duly accredited agents every facility, within the bounds of military requirements and Administrative Regulations, for the effective accomplishment of their humane task. Delegates of these Societies may be admitted to the places of interment forthe distribution of relief, as also to the halting places of repatriated prisoners, if furnished with a personal permit by the military authorities , and on giving an

Les socits de secours pour les Relief societies for prisoners.
prisonniers de guerre, rgulirement constitues selon la loi de
leur pays et ayant pour objet d'tre les intermdiaires de l'action charitable, recevront, de la part des belligrents, pour elles et pour leurs agents dment accrdits , toute facilit, dans les limites traces par les ncessits militaires et les rgles administratives, pour accomplir efficacement leur tche d'humanit. Les dlgus de ces socits pourront tre admis  distribuer des secours dans les dpts d'internement, ainsi qu'aux lieux d'tape des prisonniers rapatris, moyennant une permission personnelle dlivre par l'autorit

1816

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

engagement in writing to comply with all their Regulations for order and police.

militaire, et en prenant l'engagement par crit de se soumettre  toutes les mesures d'ordre et de
police que celle- ci prescrirait.

ARTICLE XVI.

ARTICLE 16.

Free postage. Gifts, etc.

The Information Bureau shall
have the privilege of free postage. Letters, money orders, and valua bles , as well as postal parcels destined for the prisoners of war or dispatched by them, shall be free of all postal duties both in the countries of origin and destination , as well as in those they pass through .
Gifts and relief in kind for pris-
oners of war shall be admitted free of all duties of entry and others, as well as of payments for carriage by the Government railways.

Les Bureaux de renseignements
jouissent de la franchise de port. Les lettres, mandats et articles.
d'argent, ainsi que les colis postaux destins aux prisonniers de guerre ou expdis par eux, seront affranchis de toutes taxes postales, aussi bien dans les pays d'origine et de destination que dans les pays intermdiaires.
Les dons et secours en nature
destins aux prisonniers de guerre seront admis en franchise de tous droits d'entre et autres, ainsi que des taxes de transport sur les chemins de fer exploits par l'Etat.

ARTICLE XVII .

ARTICLE 17.

Pay forofficers taken Officers taken prisoners may reprisoners.
ceive, if necessary, the full pay
allowed them in this position by their country's regulations, the amount to be repaid by their Government.

Les officiers prisonniers pour-
ront recevoir le complment, s'il y a lieu, de la solde qui leur est attribue dans cette situation par les rglements de leur pays,  charge de remboursement par leur Gouvernement.

ARTICLE XVIII.

ARTICLE 18 .

Freedom of religion. Prisoners of war shall enjoy
every latitude in the exercise of their religion , including attend-
ance at their own church services, provided only they comply with the regulations for order and police issued by the military authorities .

Toute latitude est laisse aux
prisonniers de guerre pour l'exercice de leur religion , y compris l'assistance aux offices de leur culte,  la seule condition de se conformer aux mesures d'ordre et de police prescrites par l'autorit militaire .

ARTICLE XIX.

ARTICLE 19.

Wills, etc.

The wills of prisoners of war are

received or drawn up on the same

conditions as for soldiers of the

Death etc.

National Army. certificates, The same rules shall be observed
regarding death certificates, as well

as for the burial of prisoners of

war, due regard being paid to their grade and rank .

Les testaments des prisonniers de guerre sont reus ou dresss dans les mmes conditions que pour les militaires de l'arme nationale.
On suivra galement les mmes rgles en ce qui concerne les pices relatives  la constatation des dcs, ainsi que pour l'inhumation des prisonniers de guerre , en tenant compte de leur grade et de leur rang.

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1817

ARTICLE XX .

ARTICLE 20.

After the conclusion of peace,
the repatriation of prisoners of war shall take place as speedily as possible.

Aprs la conclusion de la paix, onReerpsa. triation of prisle rapatriement des prisonniers de
guerre s'effectuera dans le plus bref dlai possible.

CHAPTER III . -- On the Sick and CHAPITRE III . - Des malades et Sick and wounded.

Wounded.

des blesss.

ARTICLE XXI.

ARTICLE 21 .

The obligations of belligerents with regardtothe sick and wounded are governed by the Geneva Convention of the 22nd August , 1864, subject to any modifications which may be introduced into it.

Les obligations des belligrants Obligations of belligerents.
concernant le service des malades Vol. 22. p. 940. et des blesss sont rgies par la Convention de Genve du 22 aot 1864, sauf les modifications dont celle- ci pourra tre l'objet.

SECTION II. -ON HOSTILITIES. SECTION II. -DES HOSTILITS . Hostilities.

CHAPTER 1. - On means of injur-
ing the Enemy, Sieges, and Bombardments.

CHAPITRE

I. - Des

moyens

de

nuire

Sieges and bombardments.

 l'ennemi, des siges et des bom-

bardements.

ARTICLE XXII.

ARTICLE 22.

The right of belligerents to adopt
means of injuring the enemy is not unlimited.

Methods of injuring Les belligrants n'ont pas un enemy limited.
droit illimit quant au choix des moyens de nuire  l'ennemi .

ARTICLE XXIII.

ARTICLE 23.

Besides the prohibitions provided by special Conventions , it is especially prohibited :-
(a .) To employ poison or poisoned arms ;
(b. ) To kill or wound treacherously individuals belonging to the hostile nation or army ;
(c.) To kill or wound an enemy who, having laid down arms, or having no longer means of defence, has surrendered at discretion ;
(d. ) To declare that no quarter will be given;
(e. ) To employ arms, projectiles, or material of a nature to cause superfluous injury ;
(f.) To make improper use of a flag of truce, the national flag, or military ensigns and the enemy's uniform , as well as the distinctive badges of the Geneva Convention;
(g . ) To destroy or seize the enemy's property, unless such destruction or seizure be impera-

Outre les prohibitions tablies
par des conventions spciales , il est notamment interdit:
a. d'employer du poison ou des armes empoisones ;
b. de tuer ou de blesser par tra-
hison des individus appartenant  la nation ou  l'arme ennemie;
c. de tuer ou de blesser un en-
nemi qui, ayant mis bas les armes ou n'ayant plus les moyens de se dfendre, s'est rendu  discrtion ;
d. de dclarer qu'il ne sera pas fait de quartier ;
e. d'employer des armes, des
projectiles ou des matires propres  causer des maux superflus ;
f. d'user indment du pavillon parlementaire, du pavillon national o des insignes militaires et de l'uniforme de l'ennemi, ainsi que des signes distinctifs de la Convention de Genve;
g. de dtruire ou de saisir des proprits ennemies, sauf les cas o ces destructions ou ces saisies

Prohibitions.

1818

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

tively demanded by the necessities of war.
ARTICLE XXIV .

seraient imprieusement commandes par les ncessits de la guerre .
ARTICLE 24.

Obtaining informa-

tion.

Ruses of war and the employ-

ment of methods necessary to ob-

tain information about the enemy

and the country, are considered allowable.

Les ruses de guerre et l'emploi des moyens ncessaires pour se procurer des renseignements sur l'ennemi et sur le terrain sont considrs comme licites.

ARTICLE XXV.

ARTICLE 25.

Bombardment of defenseless towns, etc.,

The attack or bombardment of

prohibited.

towns, villages, habitations oorr

buildings which are not defended ,

is prohibited.

Il est interdit d'attaquer ou de bombarder des villes, villages,
habitations ou btiments qui ne sont pas dfendus

ARTICLE XXVI .

ARTICLE 26.

Notification of bom- The Commander of an attacking bardment.
force, before commencing a bombardment, except in the case of an
assault, should do all he can to warn the authorities .

Le commandant des troupes as-
saillantes, avant d'entreprendre le bombardement, et sauf le cas s'attaque de vive force , devra faire tout ce qui dpend de lui por en avertir les autorits.

ARTICLE XXVII.

ARTICLE 27.

Unnecessary destruction to be

In sieges and bombardments all

avoided.

necessary steps should be taken to

spare as far as possible edifices devoted to religion, art, science,

and charity, hospitals , and places

where the sick and wounded are

collected , provided they are not

used at the same time for military

purposes.

The besieged should indicate these buildings or places by some particular and visible signs, which should previously be notified to the assailants.

Dans les siges et bombardements, toutes les mesures ncessaires doivent tre prises pour pargner, autant que possible, les difices consacrs aux cultes, aux arts, aux sciences et  la bienfaisance, les hpitaux et les lieux de rassemblement de malades et de blesss,  condition qu'ils ne soient pas employs en mme temps  un but militaire.
Le devoir des assigs est de dsigner ces difices ou lieux de rassemblement par des signes visibles spciaux qui seront notifis d'avance  l'assigeant.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

ARTICLE 28.

Pillage prohibited.

The pillage of a town or place ,
even when taken by assault, is prohibited.

Il est interdit de livrer au pil-
lage mme une ville ou localit prise d'assaut.

Spies.

CHAPTER II. - On Spies.

CHAPITRE II. - Des espions.

Definition .

ARTICLE XXIX.

ARTICLE 29 .

An individual can only be considered a spy if, acting clandestinely , or on false pretences , he obtains, or seeks to obtain infor-

Ne peut tre considr comme espion que l'individu qui , agissant clandestinement ou sous de faux prtextes, recueille ou cherche 

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND . JULY 29 , 1899.

1819

mation in the zone of operations of a belligerent, with the intention of communicating it to the hostile party .
Thus, soldiers not in disguise
who have penetrated into the zone of operations of a hostile army to obtain information are not con-
sidered spies. Similarly, the following are not considered spies : soldiers or civillians, carrying out their mission openly, charged with the delivery of despatches destined either for their own army or for that of the enemy. To this class belong likewise individuals sent in baloons to deliver despatches, and generally to maintain communication between the various parts of an army or a territory.

recueillir des informations dans la zne d'oprations d'un belligrant, avec l'intention de les communiquer  la partie adverse.
Ainsi les militaires non dgui-
ss qui ont pntr dans la zne d'oprations de l'arme ennemie,  l'effet de recueillir des informa-
tions , ne sont pas considrs comme espions. De mme, ne sont pas considrs comme espions : les militaires et les non-militaires, accomplissant ouvertement leur mission , chargs de transmettre de dpches destines soit  leur propre arme , soit  l'arme ennemie. A cette catgorie appartiennent galement les individus envoys en ballon pour transmettre les dpches, et, en gnral, pour entretenir les communications entre les diverses parties d'une arme ou d'un territoire.

Exemption .

ARTICLE XXX.

ARTICLE 30 .

A spy taken in the act cannot be punished without previous trial.

L'espion pris sur le fait ne pourra tre puni sans jugement pralable.

Trial.

ARTICLE XXXI.

ARTICLE 31 .

A spy who, after rejoining the army to which he belongs, is subsequently captured by the enemy, is treated as a prisoner of war, and incurs no responsibility for his previous acts of espionage.

L'espion qui, ayant rejoint joSipniiensgtaarkmeyn.after rel'arme  laquelle il appartient, est captur plus tard par l'ennemi ,
est trait comme prisonnier de guerre et n'encourt aucune responsabilit pour ses actes d'espionnage antrieurs .

CHAPTER III. - On Flags of Truce.

CHAPITRE III. - Des parlemen- Flags of truce. taires.

ARTICLE XXXII.

ARTICLE 32.

An individual is considered as
bearing a flag of truce who is authorized by one of the belligerents to enter into communication with the other, and who carries a white flag. He has a right to inviolability, as well as the trumpeter, bugler, or drummer, the flag bearer, and the interpreter who may accompany him.

Est considr comme pariemen- Inviolability of bearer.
taire l'individu autoris par l'un des belligrants  entrer en pourparlers avec l'autre et se prsentant avec le drapeau blanc. Il a droit  l'inviolabilit ainsi que la trompette, clairon ou tambour, le porte-drapeau et l'interprte qui l'accompagneraient.

ARTICLE XXXIII .

ARTICLE 33 .

The Chief to whom a flag of truce is sent is not obliged to receive it in all circumstances.

Right to reject flag Le Chef auquel un parlemen- of truce.
taire est expdi n'est oblig de le
recevoir en toutes circonstances .

1820

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.

He can take all steps necessary to prevent the envoy taking advantage of his mission to obtain information .
In case of abuse, he has the right to detain the envoy temporarily.
ARTICLE XXXIV .

Il peut prendre toutes les mesures ncessaires afin d'empcher le parlementaire de profiter de sa mission pour se renseigner.
Il a le droit, en cas d'abus, de retenir temporairement le parlementaire.
ARTICLE 34.

Acts oftreachery.

The envoy loses his rights of inviolability if it is proved beyond doubt that he has taken advantage of his privileged position to provoke or commit an act of treachery .

Le parlementaire perd ses droits
d'inviolabilit, s'il est prouv, d'une manire positive et irrcus-
able, qu'il a profit de sa position privilgie pour provoquer ou commettre un acte de trahison.

Capitulation .

CHAPTER IV . - On Capitulations. CHAPITRE IV. -Des capitulations.

ARTICLE XXXV.

ARTICLE 35.

Must be in accordance with rules of

Capitulations agreed on between

military honor.

the Contracting Parties must be

in accordance with the rules of military honour.

When once settled, they must

be scrupulously observed by both the parties.

Les capitulations arrtes entre les parties contractantes doivent tenir compte des rgles de l'honneur militaire.
Une fois fixes, elles doivent
tre scrupuleusement observes par les deux parties.

Armistices.

CHAPTER V. - On Armistices.

CHAPITRE V. -De l'armistice.

ARTICLE XXXVI.

ARTICLE 36 .

Suspension of hostilities.

An armistice suspends military

operations by mutual agreement

between the belligerent parties.

If its duration is not fixed, the

belligerent parties can resume operations at any time, provided always the enemy is warned within

the time agreed upon, in accordance with the terms of the armis-
tice .

L'armistice suspend les oprations de guerre par un accord mutuel des parties belligrants. Si la dure n'en est pas dtermine, les parties belligrants peuvent reprendre en tout temps les oprations, pourvu toutefois que l'ennemi soit averti en temps convenu, conformment aux conditions de l'armistice .

ARTICLE XXXVII.

ARTICLE 37.

General and local armistices .

An armistice may be general or

local. The first suspends all mili-

tary operations of the belligerent States; the second , only those between certain fractions of the

belligerent armies and in a fixed radius .

L'armistice peut tre gnral ou local. Le premier suspend partout les oprations de guerre des Etats belligrants ; le second, seulement entre certaines fractions des
armes belligrants et dans un rayon dtermin.

Notification.

ARTICLE XXXVIII .

ARTICLE 38.

An armistice must be notified
officially, and in good time, to the competent authorities and the troops. Hostilities are suspended immediately after the notification , or at a fixed date.

L'armistice doit tre notifi offi-
ciellement et en temps utile aux autorits comptentes et aux troupes . Les hostilits sont suspendues immdiatement aprs la notification ou au terme fix.

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1821

ARTICLE XXXIX.

ARTICLE 39.

It is for the Contracting Parties to settle, in the terms of the armistice, what communications may be held, on the theatre of war , with the population and with each other.

Communications Il dpend des parties contrac- permitted. tantes de fixer, dans les clauses de
l'armistice, les rapports qui pourraient avoir lieu , sur le thtre de
la guerre, avec les populations et entre elles.

ARTICLE XL.

ARTICLE 40.

Any serious violation of the ar-
mistice by one of the parties gives the other party the right to denounce it, and even, in case of urgency, to recommence hostilities at once.

Violation by princiToute violation grave de l'ar- pals. mistice, par l'une des parties,
donne  l'autre le droit de le d-
noncer et mme, en cas d'urgence, de reprendre immdiatement les hostilits .

ARTICLE XLI.

ARTICLE 41 .

A violation of the terms of the armistice by private individuals acting on their own initiative, only confers the right of demanding the punishment of the offenders, and, if necessary, indemnity for the losses sustained.

La violation des clauses de Violation by private individuals. l'armistice, par des particuliers agissant de leur proper initiative , donne droit seulement  rclamer la punition des coupables et, s'il y a lieu, une indemnit pour les pertes prouves.

SECTION III . --ON MILITARY AUTHORITY OVER HOSTILE TERRITORY .

SECTION

III. -DE

L'AUTORIT Military authority over hostile territory.

MILITAIRE SUR LE TERRITOIRE

DE L'ETAT ENNEMI.

ARTICLE XLII .

ARTICLE 42.

Territory is considered occupied when it is actually placed under the authority of the hostile army.
The occupation applies only to the territory where such authority is established, and in a position to assert itself.

Un territoire est considr Occupation of territory.
comme occup lorsqu'il se trouve plac de fait sous l'autorit de l'arme ennemie.
L'occupation ne s'tend qu'aux territoires o cette autorit est tablie et en mesure de s'exercer .

ARTICLE XLIII.

ARTICLE 43.

The authority of the legitimate power having actually passed into the hands of the occupant, the latter shall take all steps in his power to re-establish and insure , as far as possible, public order and safety, while respecting, unless absolutely prevented, the laws in force in the country .

L'autorit du pouvoir lgal pubRleiecstoarbdleirs, hemtce.nt of
ayant pass de fait entre les mains de l'occupant, celui- ci prendra toutes les mesures qui dpendent de lui en vue de rtablir et d'as-
surer, autant qu'il est possible, l'ordre et la vie publics en respectant, sauf empchement absolu, les lois en vigueur dans le pays.

ARTICLE XLIV.

ARTICLE 44.

Any compulsion of the population of occupied territory to take part in military operations against its own country is prohibited.

Il est interdit de forcer la popu Forced military service prohibited .
lation d'un territoire occup 
prendre part aux oprations militaires contre son propre pays.

1822

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

ARTICLE XLV.

ARTICLE 45.

Compulsory oaths

prohibited .

Any pressure on the population

of occupied territory to take the

oath to the hostile Power is pro-

hibited.

Il est interdit de contraindre la
population d'un territoire occup  prter serment  la puissance ennemie.

ARTICLE XLVI.

ARTICLE 46.

Family rights, private property, etc., to Family honours and rights , indi-

be respected.

vidual lives and private property,

as well as religious convictions and

liberty, must be respected.

Private property cannot be confiscated .

L'honneur et les droits de la
famille , la vie des individus et la proprit prive , ainsi que les convictions religieuses et l'exercice des cultes , doivent tre respects.
La proprit prive ne peut pas tre confisque.

ARTICLE XLVII.

ARTICLE 47.

Pillage prohibited

Pillage is formally prohibited. ARTICLE XLVIII .

Le pillage est formelleraent interdit.
ARTICLE 48 .

Collection of taxes. If, in the territory occupied, the
occupant collects the taxes, dues, and tolls imposed for the benefit of the State, he shall do it, as far as possible, in accordance with the rules in existence and the assessment in force, and will in consequence be bound to defray the expenses of the administration of the occupied territory on the same scale as that by which the legitimate Government was bound.

Si l'occupant prlve , dans le territoire occup, les impts, droits et pages tablis au profit de l'Etat, il le fera, autant que
possible, d'aprs les rgles de l'assiette et de la rpartition en vigueur, et il en rsultera pour lui l'obligation de pourvoir aux frais de l'administration du territoire occup dans la mesure o le Gouvernement lgal y tait tenu.

ARTICLE XLIX.

ARTICLE 49 .

Money taxes for military necessities.

If, besides the taxes mentioned

in the preceding Article , the occu-

pant levies other money taxes in

the occupied territory , this can only

be for military necessities or the administration of such territory.

Si, en dehors des impts viss  l'article prcdent, l'occupant prlve d'autres contributions en argent dans le territoire occup, ce ne pourra tre que pour les besoins de l'arme ou de l'administration de ce territoire.

ARTICLE L.

ARTICLE 50.

General penalty for No general penalty, pecuniary or bacitdsdoefni.ndividuals for otherwise, can be inflicted on the
population on account of the acts of individuals for which it cannot be regarded as collectively responsible.
ARTICLE LI.

Aucune peine collective, pcuniaire ou autre, ne pourra tre dicte contre les populations  raison de faits individuels dont elles ne pourraient tre considres comme solidairement responsables.
ARTICLE 51.

Written order for No tax shall be collected except collection of taxes.
under a written order and on the responsibility of a Commander- inChief.

Aucune contribution ne sera
perue qu'en vertu d'un ordre crit et sous la responsabilit d'un gnral en chef.

CONVENTION- WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1823

This collection shall only take place, as far as possible, in accordance with the rules in existence and the assessment of taxes in force.
For every payment a receipt shall be given to the taxpayer.

Il ne sera procd, autant que
possible,  cette perception que d'aprs les rgles de l'assiette et de la rpartition des impts en vigueur.
Pour toute contribution un reu
sera dlivr aux contribuables .

Receipts.

ARTICLE LII.

ARTICLE 52.

Neither requisition in kind nor services can be demanded from
communes or inhabitants except for the necessities of the army of occupation. They must be in proportion to the resources of the country, and of such a nature as not to involve the population in the obligation of taking part in military operations against their country .
These requisitions and services shall only be demanded on the authority of the Commander in the locality occupied.
The contributions in kind shall , as far as possible, be paid for in ready money; if not, their receipt shall be acknowledged.

Des rquisitions en nature et des serRveiqcueiss. itions and services ne pourront tre rclams des communes ou des habitants, que pour les besoins de l'arme d'occupation . Ils seront en rapport avec les ressources du pays et de telle nature qu'ils n'impliquent pas pour les populations l'obligation de prendre part aux oprations de la guerre contre leur patrie.
Ces rquisitions et ces services ne seront rclams qu'avec l'autorisation du commandant dans la localit occupe.
Les prestations en nature seront , autant que possible, payes au comptant ; sinon , elles seront constates par des reus.

ARTICLE LIII .

ARTICLE 53.

An army of occupation can only take possession of the cash, funds, and property liable to requisition belonging strictly to the State, depts of arms, means of transport, stores and supplies, and, generally, all movable property of the State which may be used for military operations.
Railway plant, land telegraphs , telephones, steamers, and other ships, apart from cases governed by maritime law, as well as depts of arms and, generally, all kinds of war material, even though belonging to Companies or to private persons , are likewise material which may serve for military operations, but they must be restored at the conclusion of peace, and indemnities paid for them.

Seizure of public L'arme qui occupe un territoire cash, funds, etc. nnee ppoouurrrraa saisir que le numraire, les fonds et les valeurs exigibles appartenant en propre  l'Etat, les dpts d'armes, moyens de trans-
port, magasins et approvisionne-
ments et, en gnral, toute proprit mobilire de l'Etat de nature  servir aux oprations de la
guerre. Le matriel des chemins de fer, grKapahisl, wetacy. s , tele-
les tlgraphes de terre, les tl. graphs, etc.
phones, les bateaux  vapeur et autres navires, en dehors des cas rgis par la loi maritime , de mme que les dpts d'armes et en gnral toute espce de munitions de guerre, mme appartenant  des socits ou  des personnes prives , sont galement des moyens de nature  servir aux oprations de la guerre, mais devront tre resti-
tus, et les indemnits seront rgles  la paix .

ARTICLE LIV .

ARTICLE 54.

The plant of railways coming from neutral States, whether the

Le matriel

des

chemins de

fer Railway material from neutral States.

provenant d'Etats neutres, qu'il

1824

CONVENTION -WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

property of those States, or of Companies, or of private persons , shall be sent back to them as soon
as possible.

appartienne  ces Etats ou  des Socits ou personnes prives, leur sera renvoy aussitt que possible.

ARTICLE LV.

ARTICLE 55.

Administration of

occupied territory.

The occupying State shall only

be regarded as administrator and

usufructuary of the public buildings, real property, forests, and

agricultural works belonging to the hostile State, and situated in

the occupied country. It must

protect the capital of these properties, and administer it according to the rules of usufruct.

L'Etat occupant ne se consid rera que comme administrateur et usufruitier des difices publics, immeubles , forts et exploitations agricoles appartenant  l'Etat ennemi et se trouvant dans le pays occup. Il devra sauvegarder le fond de ces proprits et les administrer conformment aux rgles de l'usufruit.

ARTICLE LVI.

ARTICLE 56.

Municipal , reli- The property of the communes, gious, etc. , property . that of religious, charitable, and
educational institutions, and those of arts and science, even when State property , shall be treated as private property.
All seizure of, and destruction , or intentional damage done to such institutions, to historical monuments, works of art or science, is prohibited, and should be made the subject of proceedings.

Les biens des communes, ceux
des tablissements consacrs aux cultes,  la charit et  l'instruction, aux arts et aux sciences, mme appartenant  l'Etat, seront traits comme la proprit prive.
Toute saisie , destruction ou degradation intentionnelle de semblables tablissements , de monuments historiques, d'oeuvres d'art et de science , est interdite et doit tre
poursuivie.

Internment of bel; SECTION IV. -ON THE INTERNligerents, and care of

wounded in neutral MENT OF BELLIGERENTS AND THE

countries.

CARE OF THE WOUNDED IN

NEUTRAL COUNTRIES.

SECTION IV. -DES BELLIGRANTS INTERNS ET DES BLESSS SOIGNS CHEZ LES NEUTRES .

ARTICLE LVII.

ARTICLE 57.

Confinement of bel- A neutral State which receives ligerents in neutral

territory.

in its territory troops belonging

to the belligerent armies shall

intern them, as far as possible, at a distance from the theatre of war.

It can keep them in camps, and even confine them in fortresses or

locations assigned for this purpose.

It shall decide whether officers
may be left at liberty on giving their parole that they will not leave the neutral territory without authorization .

L'Etat neutre qui reoit sur son
territoire des troupes appartenant aux armes belligrantes , les inter-
nera, autant que possible, loin du thtre de la guerre.
Il pourra les garder dans des camps, et mme les enfermer dans
les forteresses ou dans des lieux appropris  cet effet.
Il dcidera si les officiers peu-
vent tre laisss libres en prenant l'engagement sur parole de ne pas quitter le territoire neutre sans autorisation .

ARTICLE LVIII .

ARTICLE 58.

Food, clothing, etc. Failing a special Convention ,

A dfaut de convention spciale,

the neutral State shall supply the l'Etat neutre fournira aux interns

CONVENTION- WAR ON LAND. JULY 29, 1899.

1825

interned with the food, clothing, and relief required by humanity .
At the conclusion of peace , the expenses caused by the internment shall be made good.

les vivres, les habillements et les secours commands par l'humanit.
Bonification sera faite,  la paix,
des frais occasionns par l'internement.

Reimbursement.

ARTICLE LIX.

ARTICLE 59.

A neutral State may authorize
the passage through its territory of wounded or sick belonging to the belligerent armies, on condition that the trains bringing them shall carry neither combatants nor war material. In such a case, the neutral State is bound to adopt such measures of safety and control as may be necessary for the purpose.
Wounded and sick brought under these conditions into neutral
territory by one of the belligerents, and belonging to the hostile party, must be guarded by the neutral state, so as to insure their not taking part again in the military operations. The same duty shall devolve on the neutral State
with regard to wounded or sick of the other army who may be committed to its care.

L'Etat neutre pourra autoriser Transit of wounded or sick through neu-
le passage sur son territoire des tral territory. blesss ou malades appartenant aux armes belligrantes, sous la
rserve que les trains qui les amneront ne transporteront ni personnel ni matriel de guerre. En pareil cas, l'Etat neutre est tenu de prendre les mesures de sret et de contrle ncessaires  cet effet.
Les blesss ou malades amens Neutral State must furnish guard .
dans ces conditions sur le territoire
neutre par un des belligrants,
et qui appartiendraient  la partie adverse, devront tre gards par l'Etat neutre, de manire qu'ils ne puissent de nouveau prendre part
aux oprations de la guerre. Celui- ci aura les mmes devoirs
quant aux blesss ou malades de l'autre arme qui lui seraient confis .

ARTICLE LX.

ARTICLE 60.

The Geneva Convention applies
to sick and wounded interned in neutral territory.

La Convention de Genve s'ap- apGpelinceavbaleC.onvention plique aux malades et aux blesss Vol. 22, p. 940. interns sur territoire neutre.

And whereas the said Convention was duly ratified by the Government of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Governments of the other Powers aforesaid with the exception of Sweden and Norway and Turkey ;
And whereas, in pursuance of the stipulations of Article III of the said Convention the ratifications of the said Convention were deposited at The Hague on the 4th day of September, 1900, by the Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Great Britain , Italy, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Siam, and Bulgaria ; on the 6th day of October, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Japan ; on the 16th day of October, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Montenegro ; on the 4th day of April, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Greece ; on the 17th day of April , 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Mexico ; on the 11th day of May, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Servia; on the 12th day of July, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Luxembourg ; and on the 5th day of April , 1902 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of the United States of America :
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to
VOL XXXII , PT 238

Ratification. Deposit.
Proclamation

1826

CONVENTION-WAR ON LAND. JULY 29 , 1899.
be made public, to the end that the same and every clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and of
[SEAL] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - sixth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : DAVID J. HILL, Acting Secretary of State.

CONVENTION-MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

1827

Convention between the United States of America and Certain Powers for the adaptation to maritime warfare ofthe principles of the Geneva Convention ofAugust 22, 1864. Signed at The Hague July 29, 1899; ratification advised by the Senate May 4, 1900; ratified by the Presi dent of the United States August 3, 1900; ratification deposited with the Netherlands Government September 4, 1900; proclaimed November 1, 1901.

July 29, 1899.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Convention for the adaptation to Maritime Warfare of the principles of the Geneva Convention of August 22, 1864, was concluded and signed on July 29, 1899 , by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium , China, Denmark, Spain, Mexico, France, Great Britain and Ireland, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia , Servia, Siam, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, Turkey and Bulgaria , the original of which Convention, in the French language, is word for word as follows :

Preamble. Vol. 22, p. 940.

CONVENTION POUR L'ADAPTATION  LA GUERRE MARITIME DES PRINCIPES DE LA CONVENTION DE GENEVE DU 22 AOT 1864.

[Translation. ]
CONVENTION FOR THE ADAPTATION TO MARITIME WARFARE OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GENEVA CONVENTION OF AUGUST 22, 1864.

Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Allemagne, Roi de Prusse ; Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Autriche, Roi de Bohme etc. et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie ; Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; Sa Majest l'Empereur de Chine; Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et en Son Nom Sa Majest la Reine- Rgente du Royaume ; le Prsident des Etats -Unis d'Amrique ; le Prsident des EtatsUnis Mexicains ; le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise ; Sa Majest la Reine du Royaume- Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indes ; Sa Majest le Roi des Hellnes ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie; Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon ; Son Altesse Royale le Grand- Duc de Luxembourg, Duc de Nassau ; Son Altesse le Prince le Montngro ; Sa Majest

His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King of Prussia ; His Majesty the Emperor of Austria , King of Bohemia etc. and Apostolic King of Hungary ; His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; His Majesty the Emperor of China ; His Majesty the King of Denmark; His Majesty the King of Spain and in His Name HerMajesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom ; the President of the United States of America; the President of the United Mexican States ; the President of the French Republic ; Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India; His Majesty the King of the Hellenes ; His Majesty the King of Italy; His Majesty the Emperor of Japan; His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg, Duke of Nassau; His

Contracting parties.

1828

CONVENTION-MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

la Reine des Pays-Bas ; Sa Majest Impriale le Schah de Perse; Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves etc.; Sa Majest le Roi de Roumanie ; Sa Majest l'Empereur de Toutes les Russies ; Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie ; Sa Majest le Roi de Siam; Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge ; le Conseil Fdral Suisse ; Sa Majest l'Empereur des Ottomans et Son Altesse Royale le Prince de Bulgarie

Object of convention.

Egalement anims du dsir de

diminuer autant qu'il dpend d'eux

les maux insparables de la guerre

et voulant dans ce but adapter 

la guerre maritime les principes

de la Convention de Genve du 22

aot 1864, ont rsolu de conclure une Convention  cet effet ;

Plenipotentiaries.

Ils ont en consquence nomm pour Leurs Plnipotentiaires , savoir:
Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Allemagne Roi de Prusse : Son Excellence le Comte de Mnster, Prince de Derneburg, Son Ambassadeur  Paris.
Sa Majest l'Empereur d'Autriche Roi de Bohme etc. , et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie : Son Excellence le Comte R. de Welsersheimb, Son Ambassadeur extraordinaire et plnipotentiaire. M. Alexandre Okolicsanyi d'Okolicsna, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye .
Sa Majest le Roi des Belges : Son Excellence M. Auguste Beernaert, Son Ministre d'Etat, Prsident de la Chambre des Reprsentants . M. le Comte De Grelle Rogier, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye. M. le Chevalier Descamps , Snateur .
Sa Majest l'Empereur de Chine : M. Yang Yu, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg.
Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark: Son Chambellan Fr. E. de Bille, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres.

Highness the Prince of Montene-
gro; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands ; His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Persia ; His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves etc.; His Majesty the King of Roumania ; His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias ; His Majesty the King of Servia; His Majesty the King of Siam ; His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway; the Swiss Federal Council; His Majesty the Emperor of the Ottomans and His Royal Highness the Prince of Bulgaria.
Alike animated by the desire to diminish, as far as depends on them the evils inseparable from warfare, and wishing with this object to adapt to maritime warfare the principles of the Geneva Convention of the 22nd August, 1864, have decided to conclude a convention to this effect :
They have, in consequence, appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, to wit:
His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, King of Prussia , His Excellency Count Munster , Prince of Derneburg, His Ambassador at Paris .
His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia , etc. , and Apostolic King of Hungary : His Excellency Count R. de Welsersheimb, His Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary; Mr. Alexander Okolicsanyi d'Okolicsna, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of the Belgians : His Excellency Mr. Auguste Beernaert, His Minister of State , President of the Chamber of Deputies ; Count de Grelle Rogier, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague ; the Chevalier Descamps, Senator.
His Majesty the Emperor of China : Mr. Yang Yu, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg.
His Majesty the King of Denmark: His Chamberlain Fr. E. de
Bille, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London.

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et

His Majesty the King of Spain

en Son Nom, Sa Majest la ReineRgente du Royaume : Son Excellence le Duc de Tetuan, Ancien

and in His Name, Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom : His Excellency the Duke of

Ministre des Affaires Etrangres. M. W. Ramirez de Villa Urrutia, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles. M. Arthur de Baguer , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Le Prsident des tats-Unis

Tetuan , formerly Minister for Foreign Affairs ; M. W. Ramirez_de Villa Urrutia, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels ; M. Arthur de Baguer, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
The President of the United

d'Amrique: M. Stanford Newel, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Le Prsident des tats-Unis Mexicains : M. de Mier, Envoy

States of America : Mr. Stanford Newel, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
The President of the United Mexican States : Mr. de Mier, En-

extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris. M. Zenil, Ministre-Rsident  Bruxelles .
Le Prsident de la Rpublique

voy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris ; Mr. Zenil, Minister Resident at Brussels .
The President of the French

Franaise : M. Lon Bourgeois, Ancien Prsident du Conseil, Ancien Ministre des Affaires tran-

Republic : M. Lon Bourgec is , formerly President of the Council, ex-Minister of Foreign Affairs,

gres, Membre de la Chambre des Dputs. M. Georges Bihourd, Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye. M. le Baron d'Estournelles de Constant,

Member of the Chamber of Deputies; M. Georges Bihourd, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague; Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, Min-

Ministre plnipotentiaire, Membre ister Plenipotentiary , Member of

de la Chambre Dputs.

the Chamber of Deputies.

Sa Majest la Reine du Royaume Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indies : Sir Henry Howard, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Sa Majest le Roi des Hellnes : M. N. Delyanni , Ancien Prsident du Conseil , Ancien Ministre des Affaires trangres, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Paris.
Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie : Son
Excellence le Comte Nigra, Son Ambassadeur  Vienne, Snateur du Royaume. M. le Comte A. Zannini, Son Envoy extraordi-

Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India : Sir Henry Howard, Her Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of the Hellenes : Mr. N. Delyanni, formerly President of the Council, ex-Minister for Foreign Affairs, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris.
His Majesty the King of Italy: His Excellency Count Nigra, His Ambassador at Vienna, Senator of the Kingdom ; Count A. Zannini , His Envoy Extraordinary and

naire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Have. M. le Commandeur
Guido Pompilj , Dput au Parlement Italien.

Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague ; Commander Guido Pompilj, Deputy in the Italian Parliament.

Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon : M. I. Motono, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Bruxelles.

His Majesty the Emperor of Japan : Mr. I. Motono, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Brussels .

1829

1830

CONVENTION-MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29 , 1899.

Son Altesse Royale le Grand Duc de Luxembourg , Duc de Nassau: Son Excellence M. Eyschen, Son Ministre d'tat, Prsident du Gouvernement Grand-Ducal.
Son Altesse le Prince de Mont-

His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg, Duke of Nassau : His Excellency Mr. Eyschen, His Minister of State, President of the Grand Ducal Governmert.
His Highness the Prince of Mon-

ngro : Son Excellence M. le Conseiller Priv Actuel de Staal, Ambassadeur de Russie  Londres.

tenegro : His Excellency Mr. de Staal, Privy Councillor, Ambassador of Russia at London.

Sa Majest la Reine des PaysBas: M. le Jonkheer A. P. C. van Karnebeek, Ancien Ministre des

Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands : Jonkheer A. P. C. van Karnebeek, formerly Minister

Affaires trangres, Membre de la for Foreign Affairs, Member of Seconde Chambre des tats-Gn- the Second Chamber of the States

raux. M. le Gnral J. C. C. den Beer Poortugael, Ancien Ministre de la Guerre, Membre du Conseil d'tat. M. T. M. . Asser, Membre du Conseil d'tat. M. E. N. Rahusen, Membre de la Premire Chambre des tats- Gnraux.

General ; General J. C. C. den Beer Poortugael, formerly Minister of War, Member of the Council of State; Mr. T. M. C. Asser, Member of the Council of State ; Mr. E. N. Rahusen, Member of the First Chamber of the States General.

Sa Majest Impriale le Schah de Perse: Son Aide de Camp Gnral Mirza Riza Khan, Arfa-udDovleh, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg et  Stockholm.
Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves, etc.: M. le Comte de Macedo, Pair du Royaume, Ancien Ministre de la Marine et des Colonies, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Madrid. M. d'Ornellas et Vasconcellos, Pair du Royaume, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg. M. le Comte de Selir, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.

His Imperial Majesty the Shah of Persia; His Aid -de -camp General Mirza Riza Khan, Arfa-udDovleh, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and Stockholm .
His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves, etc : Count Macedo, Peer of the Kingdom, formerly Minister of the Navy and of the Colonies, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Madrid ; Mr. d'Ornellas and Vasconcellos , Peer of the Kingdom, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg; Count de Selir, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.

Sa Majest le Roi de Roumanie: M. Alexandre Beldiman , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre

His Majesty the King of Roumania : Mr. Alexander Beldiman, His Envoy Extraordinary and Min-

plnipotentiaire  Berlin. M. Jean N. Papiniu, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye.
Sa Majest l'Empereur de
Toutes les Russies : Son Excellence M. le Conseiller Priv Actuel de Staal, Son Ambassadeur Londres.

ister Plenipotentiary at Berlin ; Mr. Jean N. Papiniu , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague.
His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias : His Excellency Mr. de Staal, Privy Councillor, His Ambassador at London ; Mr. de

M. de Martens, Membre Perma- Martens, Permanent Member of

nent du Conseil du, Ministre Im- the Council of the Imperial Minis-

prial des Affaires trangres, Son Conseiller Priv. Son Conseiller d'tat Actuel de Basily, Chambellan , Directeur du Premier Dparte-

try of Foreign Affairs, His Privy Councillor ; Mr. de Basily, His Councillor of State, Chamberlain, Director of the First Department of

CONVENTION-MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

1831

ment du Ministre Imprial des Affaires trangres.
Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie : M. Miyatovitch, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Londres et  la Haye .
Sa Majest le Roi de Siam: M. Phya Suriya Nuvatr, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  St. Ptersbourg et  Paris. M. Phya Visuddha Suriyasakti , Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  la Haye et  Londres.
Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge : M. le Baron de Bildt, Son Envoy extraordinaire et Ministre plnipotentiaire  Rome.
Le Conseil Fdral Suisse : M.

the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
His Majesty the King of Servia : Mr. Miyatovitch, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at London and at The Hague.
His Majesty the King of Siam : M. Phya Suriya Nuvatr, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg and at Paris ; M. Phya Visuddha Suriyasakti, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague and at London.
His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway : Baron de Bildt, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Rome.
The Swiss Federal Council: Dr.

le Dr. Arnold Roth , Envoy extra-
ordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire  Berlin .

Arnold Roth, Envoy Extraordi-
nary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Berlin .

Sa Majest l'Empereur des Ot-

His Majesty the Emperor of the

tomans : Son Excellence Turkhan Ottomans : His Excellency Tur-

Pacha, Ancien Ministre des Af- khan Pasha, formerly Minister for

faires trangres, Membre de Son Foreign Affairs, Member of His Conseil d'tat . Noury Bey, Secr- Council of State ; Noury Bey, Sec-

taire- Gnral au Ministre des Affaires trangres .
Son Altesse Royale le Prince de Bulgarie : M. le Dr. Dimitri Stancioff, Agent Diplomatique  St. Ptersbourg. M. le Major Christo Hessaptchieff, Attach Militaire  Belgrade.
Lesquels, aprs s'tre communiqu leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouvs en bonne et due forme, sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :

retary-General in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
His Royal Highness the Prince of Bulgaria : Dr. Dimitri Stancioff, Diplomatic Agent at St. Petersburg ; Major Christo Hessaptchieff, Military Attach at Belgrade ;
Who, after communication of
their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed on the following provisions :

ARTICLE 1 .

ARTICLE I.

Les btiments -hpitaux militaires, c'est--dire les btiments construits ou amnags par les Etats spcialement et uniquement en vue de porter secours aux blesss , malades et naufrags, et dont les noms auront t commu-
niqus,  l'ouverture ou au cours des hostilits , en tout cas avant toute mise en usage, aux Puissances belligrantes, sont respects et ne peuvent tre capturs pendant la dure des hostilits.
Ces btiments ne sont pas non plus assimils aux navires de guerre au pont de vue de leur
sjour dans un port reutre.

Military hospital ships , that is taIrmymhuosnpiittayl sohfipmsi.lito say, ships constructed or assigned by States specially and solely for the purpose of assisting the wounded , sick or shipwrecked, and the names of which shall have been communicated to the bel-
ligerent Powers at the beginning or during the course of hostilities, and in any case before they are employed , shall be respected and cannot be captured while hostilities last.
Stay in neutral These ships, moreover, are not ports. on the same footing as men-of- war
as regards their stay in a neutral
port.

1832

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

ARTICLE 2 .

ARTICLE II .

Exemption of pri- Les btiments hospitaliers, quivate hospital ships.
ps en totalit ou en partie aux frais des particuliers ou des societs de secours officiellement reconnues, sont galement respects et exempts de capture , si la Puissance belligrante dont ils dpendent, leur a donn une commission officielle et en a notifi les noms  la Puissance adverse  l'ouverture ou
au cours des hostilits , en tout cas avant toute mise en usage.

Ships certificate.

Ces navires doivent tre porteurs d'un document de l'autorit comptente dclarant qu'ils ont t soumis  son contrle pendant leur armement et  leur dpart final .

Hospital ships , equipped wholly or in part at the cost of private individuals or officially recognized relief Societies , shall likewise be respected and exempt from capture, provided the belligerent Power to whom they belong has given them an official commission and has notified their names to the hostile Power at the commencement of or during hostilities, and in any case before they are employed.
These ships should be furnished with a certificate from the competent authorities, declaring that they had been under their control while fitting out and on final departure.

ARTICLE 3.

ARTICLE III.

Hospital-ships neutral countries.

of Les btiments hospitaliers, qui-
ps en totalit ou en partie aux frais des particuliers ou des socits officiellement reconnues de pays neutres, sont respects et exempts de capture, si la Puissance neutre dont ils dpendent leur a donn une commission officielle et en a notifi les noms aux Puissances

billigrantes  l'ouverture ou au cours des hostilits, en tout cas avant toute mise en usage.

Hospital- ships, equipped wholly or in part at the cost of private individuals or officially recognized Societies of neutral countries, shall be respected and exempt from capture , if the neutral Power to whom they belong has given them an official commission and notified their names to the
billigerent powers at the commencement of or during hostilities, and in any case before they are employed.

ARTICLE 4 .

ARTICLE IV.

Relief to belliger-

ents.

Les btiments qui sont mention

ns dans les art. 1 , 2 et 3 , porteront

secours et assistance aux blesss,

malades et naufrags des billig-

rants sans distinction de nationa-

lit.

Non-use formilitary Les Gouvernements s'engagent purposes.
 n'utiliser ces btiments pour

Restriction .

aucun but militaire . Ces btiments ne devront gner

en aucune manire les mouvements des combattants.
Risk. Pendant et aprs le combat, ils
agiront  leurs risques et prils .

Rights of belliger- Les belligrants auront sur eux ents.
le droit de contrle et de visite ;
ils pourront refuser leur concours, leur enjoindre de s'loigner, leur imposer une direction dtermine

The ships mentioned in Articles I, II , and III shall afford relief and assistance to the wounded, sick, and shipwrecked of the bel ligerents independently of their nationality.
The Governments engage not to use these ships for any military purpose.
These ships must not in any way hamper the movements of the combatants .
During and after an engagement they will act at their own risk and peril .
The belligerents will have the right to control and visit them ; they can refuse to help them , order them off, make them take a certain course, and put a Commissioner on

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899 .

1833

et mettre  bord un commissaire, mme les dtenir, si la gravit des circonstances l'exigeait.
Autant que possible , les belligrants inscriront sur le journal de bord des btiments hospitaliers les ordres qu'ils leur donneront.

board; they can even detain them , if important circumstances require it.
As far as possible the belligerents shall inscribe in the sailing papers of the hospital- ships the orders they give them.

Ships' orders,

ARTICLE 5 .

ARTICLE V.

Les btiments-hpitaux militaires seront distingus par une
peinture extrieure blanche avec une bande horizontale verte d'un mtres et demi de largeur environ .
Les btiments qui sont mentionns dans les articles 2 et 3 , seront distingus par une peinture extrieure blanche avec une bande
horizontale rouge d'un mtre et demi de largeur environ.
Les embarcations des btiments
qui viennent d'tre mentionns, comme les petits btiments qui pourront tre affects au service hospitalier, se distingueront par une peinture analogue.
Tous les btiments hospitaliers
se feront reconnatre en hissant, avec leur pavillon national, le pavillon blanc  croix rouge prvu par la Convention de Genve.

The military hospital-ships shall be distinguished by being painted white outside with a horizontal band of green about a metre and a half in breadth.
The ships mentioned in Articles II and III shall be distinguished by being painted white outside with a horizontal band of red about a metre and a half in breadth .
The boats of the ships above mentioned , as also small craft which may be used for hospital work, shall be distinguished by similar painting.
All hospital ships shall make themselves known by hoisting , together with their national flag, the white flag with a red cross provided by the Geneva Convention.

Color of ships.
Color of boats. Flag.

ARTICLE 6 .

ARTICLE VI.

Les btiments de commerce ,
yachts ou embarcations neutres, portant ou recueillant des blesss, des malades ou des naufrags des belligrants, ne peuvent tre capturs pour le fait de ce transport, mais ils restent exposs  la cap-
ture pour les violations de neutralit qu'ils pourraient avoir com mises.
ARTICLE 7.

Neutral

merchantmen ,

yachts , Acts of neutral vessels.

or vessels, having, or taking on

board, sick, wounded , or ship-

wrecked of the belligerents, can-

not be captured for so doing, but

they are liable to capture for any

violation of neutrality they may have committed.

ARTICLE VII.

Le personnel religieux, mdical
et hospitalier de tout btiment captur est inviolable et ne peut tre fait prisonnier de guerre. Il emporte, en quittant le navire, les objets et les instruments de chirurgie qui sont sa proprit particulire .
Ce personnel continuera  remplir ses fonctions tant que cela sera ncessaire et il pourra ensuite se retirer lorsque le commandant en chef le jugera possible.

The religious , medical, or hos- orRehloisgpiiotuasl, smteafdfi; ciaml-, pital staff of any captured ship is munities, etc. inviolable, and its members cannot be made prisoners of war. On leaving the ship they take with them the objects and surgical instruments which are their own private property.
This staff shall continue to dis-
charge its duties while necessary, and can afterwards leave when the Commander - in - Chief considers it possible.

1834

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

Les belligrants doivent assurer  ce personnel tomb entre leurs
mains la jouissance intgrale de son traitement.

The belligerents must guarantee to the staff that has fallen into
their hands the enjoyment of their salaries intact.

ARTICLE 8.

ARTICLE VIII.

Care ofdisabled pris- Les marins et les militaires emoners .
barqus blesss ou malades ,  quel-
que nation qu'ils appartiennent,
seront protgs et soigns par les
capteurs .

Sailors and soldiers who are
taken on board when sick or wounded , to whatever nation they belong, shall be protected and looked after by the captors.

ARTICLE 9 .

ARTICLE IX.

Disposition of shipwrecked , sick and

Sont prisonniers de guerre les

wounded.

naufrags , blesss ou malades,

d'un belligrant qui tombent au

pouvoir de l'autre. Il appartient  celui-ci de dcider, suivant les

circonstances, s'il convient de les

garder, de les diriger sur un port

de sa nation , sur un port neutre

ou mme sur un port de l'adversaire. Dans ce dernier cas, les prisonniers ainsi rendus  leur

pays ne pourront servir pendant la dure de guerre.

The shipwrecked , wounded, or sick of one of the belligerents who fall into the hands of the other, are prisoners of war . The captor must decide, according to circumstances, if it is best to keep them or send them to a port of his own country , to a neutral port, or even to a hostile port . In the last case, prisoners thus repatriated cannot serve as long as the war lasts.

ARTICLE 10.

ARTICLE X.

(Exclu . )

(Excluded)

ARTICLE 11 .

ARTICLE XI.

Powers bound. Exemption.

Les rgles contenues dans les articles ci-dessus ne sont obligatoires que pour les Puissances contractantes, en cas de guerre entre deux ou plusieurs d'entre elles.
Les dites rgles cesseront d'tre obligatoires du moment o, dans une guerre entre des Puissances contractantes , une Puissance non contractante se joindrait  l'un des belligrants .

The rules contained in the above
Articles are binding only on the Contracting Powers , in case of War between two or more of them .
The said rules shall cease to be
binding from the time when , in a war between the Contracting Powers, one of the belligerents is joined by a non-Contracting Power.

ARTICLE 12.

ARTICLE XII.

Ratification.

La prsente Convention sera

ratifie dans le plus bref dlai pos-

sible.

Deposit.

Les ratifications seront dposes

 la Haye.

Certified copies of ratification .

Il sera dress du dpt de chaque

ratification un procs- verbal, dont

une copie, certifie conforme, sera

remise par la voie diplomatique 

The present Convention shall be ratified as soon as possible.
The ratifications shall be deposited at The Hague.
On the receipt of each ratification a procs-verbal shall be drawn up, a copy of which, duly certified, shall be sent through the diplo-

CONVENTION-MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

1835

toutes les tantes .

Puissances

contrac- matic channel to all the Contracting Powers.

ARTICLE 13.

ARTICLE XIII.

Les Puissances non signataires ,
qui auront accept la Convention de Genve du 22 aot 1864, sont admises  adhrer  la prsente Convention .
Elles auront,  cet effet,  faire connaitre leur adhsion aux Puis-
sances contractantes, au moyen d'une notification crite , adresse au Gouvernement des Pays- Bas et communique par celui-ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes .
ARTICLE 14.

The non-Signatory Powers who Adhesion of ron-

accepted the Geneva Convention signatory powers.

of the 22nd August, 1864, are al-

lowed to adhere to the present Convention.
For this purpose they must make their adhesion known to the

Notification.

Contracting Powers by means of a written notification addressed to the Netherlands Government, and

by it communicated to all the other Contracting Powers.

ARTICLE XIV.

S'il arrivait qu'une des Hautes Parties contractantes dnont la prsente Convention, cette dnonciation ne produirait ses effets qu'un an aprs la notification faite par crit au Gouvernement des Pays -Bas et communique immdiatement par celui-ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes.
Cette dnonciation ne produira
ses effets qu' l'gard de la Puissance qui l'aura notifie.
En foi de quoi , les Plnipotentiaires ont sign la prsente Convention et l'ont revtue de leurs cachets .
Fait  la Haye , le vingt- neuf juillet mil huit cent quatre-vingt dix-neuf, en un seul exemplaire qui restera dpos dans les archives du Gouvernement des Pays-Bays et dont des copies, certifies conformes, seront remises par la voie diplomatique aux Puissances contractantes . Pour l'Allemagne:
(L. S. ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG . (Sous rserve de l'article X. )
Pour l'Autriche-Hongrie : (L. s. ) WELSERSHEIMB . (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI .
Pour la Belgique: (L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. s. ) CTE DE GRELLE ROGIER. (L. S. ) CHR DESCAMPS.

In the event of one of the High Contracting Parties denouncing the present Convention , such denunciation shall not take effect until a year after the notification. made in writing to the Netherlands Government, and forthwith communicated by it to all the other Contracting Powers.
This denunciation shall only af-
fect the notifying Power.
In testimony whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention and affixed their seals thereto.
Done at The Hague the 29th July, 1899, in single copy, which shall be kept in the archives of the Government of the Netherlands, and copies of which duly certified , shall be sent through the diplomatic channel to the Contracting Powers.
For Germany : (Signed) (L. S. ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG. (Under reserve of Article X. )
For Austria-Hungary:
(Signed) (L. S. ) WELSERHEIMB . (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI. For Belgium :
(Signed) (L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. S. ) CTE. DE GRELLE ROGIER. (L. S. ) CHR. DESCAMPS .

Denunciation. Deposit of original. Signatures.

1836

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29 , 1899.

Pour la Chine : (L. S. ) YANG YU.
Pour le Danemark: (L. s . ) F. BILLE.
Pour l'Espagne : (L. S.) EL DUQUE DE TETUAN. (L. s.) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA. (L. S. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER.

For China:
(Signed) (L. S.) YANG YU. For Denmark :
(Signed) (L. s . ) F. BILLE. For Spain : (Signed) (L. S. ) EL DUQUE DE TUTUAN. (L. S. ) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA. (L. S. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER.

Pour les Etats -Unis d'Amrique : (L. S. ) STANFORD NEWEL. (Sous rserve de l'article X.
Pour les Etats- Unis Mexicains : (L. S. ) A. DE MIER. (L. S.) J. ZENIL.
Pour la France : (L. S. ) LEON BOURGEOIS. (L. S. ) G. BIHOURD. (L. S. ) D'ESTOURNELLES DE CONSTANT .

For the United States of America :
(Signed) (L. S. ) STANFORD NEWEL.
(Under reserve of Article X. ) For the United Mexican States:
(Signed) (L. S. ) A. DE MIER. (L. S.) J. ZENIL. For France : (Signed) (L. S. ) LEON BOURGEOIS. (L. S. ) G. BIHOURD.
(L. S. ) D'ESTOURNELLES DE CONSTANT .

Pour la Grande Bretagne et l'Irlande :
(L. S. ) HENRY HOWARD . (Sous rserve de l'article X. )
Pour la Grce: (L. S. ) N. DELYANNI.
Pour l'Italie : (L. S. ) NIGRA. (L. S.) A. ZANNINI. (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ

For Great Britain and Ireland : (Signed) (L. s. ) HENRY HOWARD. (Under reserve of Article X. )
For Greece :
(Signed) (L. S.) N. DELYANNI. For Italy:
(Signed) (L. S.) NIGRA. (L. S.) A. ZANNINI . (L. S.) G. POMPILJ.

Pour le Japon : (L. S.) I. MOTONO.
Pour le Luxembourg: (L. S.) EYSCHEN.
Pour le Montngro : (L. S. ) STAAL.
Pour les Pays-Bas : (L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. (L. S. ) DEN BEER POORTUGAEL . (L. S. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. S. ) E. N. RAHUSEN .
Pour la Perse : (L. S. ) MIRZA RIZA KHAN, Arfaud - Dovleh.

For Japan :
(Signed) (L. S. ) I. MOTONO. For Luxemburg:
(Signed) (L. S. ) EYSCHEN. For Montenegro :
(Signed) (L. S.) STAAL . For the Netherlands :
(Signed) (L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. (L. S. ) DEN BEER POORTUGAEL.
(L. s . ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. S. ) E. N. RAHUSEN. For Persia :
(Signed) (L. S. ) MIRZA RIZA KHAN, Arfa-
ud- Dovleh .

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

1837

Pour le Portugal: (L. S. ) CONDE DE MACEDO. (L. S. ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNELLAS DE VASCONCELLOS. (L. s. ) CONDE DE SELIR.
Pour la Roumanie : (L. S. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S. ) J. N. PAPINIU.
Pour la Russie : (L. S. ) STAAL. (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. S. ) A. BASILY.
Pour la Serbie: (L. S. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH.
Pour la Siam : (L. 8. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR. (L. S. ) VISUDDHA.
Pour les Royaumes Unis de Sude et de Norvge : (L. s. ) BILDT.
Pour la Suisse : (L. S. ) ROTH.
Pour la Turquie: (L. S. ) TURKHAN. (L. S. ) MEHEMED NOURY. (Sous rserve de l'article X. )
Pour la Bulgarie : (L. S. ) D. STANCIOFF. (L. S. ) MAJOR HESSAPTCHIEFF. Certifi pour copie conforme, Le
Secrtaire Gnral du Dpartement des Affaires trangres,
LH RUYSSENAERS.
LA HAYE, le 31 janvier 1900.

For Portugal : (Signed) (L. S. ) CONDE DE MACEDO. (L. S. ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNELLAS DE VASCONCELLOS.
(L. S. ) CONDE DE SELIR. For Roumania :
(Signed) (L. S.) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S. ) J. N. PAPINIU. For Russia : (Signed) (L. s. ) STAAL. (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. S.) A. BASILY. For Servia : (Signed) (L. s. ) CHEDO MIYATO-
VITCH . For Siam :
(Signed) (L. s. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR .
(L. S. ) VISUDDHA. For the United Kingdoms of Swe-
den and Norway: (Signed) (L. s. ) BILDT. For Switzerland : (Signed) (L. s . ) ROTH. For Turkey: (Signed) (L. s. ) TURKHAN. (L. S.) MEHEMED NOURY,
(Under reserve of Article X. ) For Bulgaria:
(Signed) (L. s. ) D. STANCIOFF. (L. S. ) MAJOR HESSAPTCHIEFF. Certified as a true copy , The Secretary General of the Department of Foreign Affairs ,
L. H. RUYSSENAERS .
THE HAGUE, January 31, 1900.

And whereas on an understanding reached by the Government of
the Netherlands with the signatory powers it was agreed to exclude from the ratifications of said Convention its Article X;
And whereas the said Convention , with its Artiele X excluded , was ratified by the Government of the United States, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Governments
of the other Powers aforesaid, with the exception of those of China and Turkey ;
And whereas, in pursuance of the stipulations of Article XII of the said Convention the ratifications of the said Convention were deposited at the Hague on the 4th. day of September, 1900 , by the Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the United States of America, Germany, Austria- Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Spain , France, Great Britain , Italy, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia , Siam, Sweden and Norway and Bulgaria ; on the 6th. day of October, 1900. by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Japan ; on the 6th. day of October, 1900 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Montngro; on the 29th. day of December, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Switzerland ; on the 4th. day of April, 1901 , by
the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Greece ; on the 17th . day of

Ratification .

1838 Proclamation.

CONVENTION- MARITIME WARFARE. JULY 29, 1899.

April, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Mexico ; on the 11th. day of May, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Servia, and on the 12th. day of July, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Luxembourg:

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention,

with its Article X excluded , to be made public, to the end that the same and every clause thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with

good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof, In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this first day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one, and

[L. S. ]

of the Independence of the United States , the one hundred

and twenty- sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President: JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

DECLARATION- PROJECTILES FROM BALLOONS. JULY 29, 1899. 1839

Declaration to prohibit for the term offive years the launching ofprojectiles and explosives from balloons, and other new methods of a similar nature. Signed at The Hague July 29, 1899; ratification advised by the Senate February 5, 1900; ratified by the President of
the United States April 7 , 1900; ratification deposited with the Netherlands Government September 4, 1900; proclaimed November 1, 1901.

July 29, 1899.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, a Declaration prohibiting for a term of five years the launching of projectiles or explosives from balloons, or by any other new methods of similar nature, was signed at the Hague on July 29th . , 1899, by the respective Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, Germany, Austria- Hungary, Belgium, China, Denmark, Spain, Mexico, France, Greece, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia , Servia, Siam, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, Turkey and Bulgaria, the original of which Declaration in the French language is word for word as follows:
[Translation . ]

Preamble.

DCLARATION .

DECLARATION .

Les soussigns , Plnipotentiaires des Puissances reprsentes  la Confrence Internationale de la
Paix  La Haye, dment autoriss  cet effet par leurs Gouvernements , s'inspirant des sentiments qui ont trouvleur expression dans la Dclaration de St. Ptersbourg du 29 Novembre
1868 , 11 Dcembre Dclarent : Les Puissances contractantes
consentent, pour une dure de cinq ans,  l'interdiction de lancer des projectiles et des explosifs du haut de ballons ou par d'autres modes analogues nouveaux.
La prsente Dclaration n'est obligatoire que pour les Puissances contractantes , en cas de guerre entre deux ou plusieurs d'entre Elles .
Elle cessera d'tre obligatoire du moment o dans une guerre entre des Puissances contractantes,

The Undersigned, Plenipoten- laIrnateirona. tional dectiaries of the Powers represented at the International Peace Confer-

ence at The Hague, duly authorized to that effect by their Governments, inspired by the sentiments which found expression in the Declaration of St. Petersburg of the 29th November (11th December) ,

1868 , Declare that: Launching projec The Contracting Powers agree tiles from balloons
to prohibit, for a term of five prohibited.

years, the launching of projectiles and explosives from balloons , or by other new methods of similar nature.
The present Declaration is only binding on the Contracting Powers in case of war between two or

Powers bound.

more of them.

It shall cease to be binding from the time when, in a war between the Contracting Powers, one of the

Exemption.

1840 DECLARATION- PROJECTILES FROM BALLOONS. JULY 29 , 1899.

Ratification.

une Puissance non contractante se joindrait  l'un des belligrants.
La Prsente Dclaration sera ra-

tifie dans le plus bref dlai possible.

Deposit.

Les ratifications seront dposes

 La Haye.

Certified copies of Il sera dress de dpt de chaque ratification .

ratification un procs- verbal, dont

une copie, certifie conforme, sera

remise par la voie diplomatique 

toutes les Puissances contractantes.

Adhesion ofnon-sig-

natory powers.

Les Puissances non signataires

pourront adhrer  la prsente Dclaration . Elles auront,  cet

effet ,  faire connate leur adhsion

aux Puissances contractantes, au moyen d'une notification crite , adressau Gouvernement des Pays-

Denunciation. Powers affected.

Bas et communique par celui- ci a toutes les autres Puissances contractantes .
S'il arrivait qu'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes dnonct la prsente Dclaration , cette dnonciation ne produirait ses effets qu'un an aprs la notification faite par crit au Gouvernement des Pays- Bas et communiqe immdiatement par celui-ci  toutes les autres Puissances contractantes.
Cette dnonciation ne produira

Signatures.

ses effets qu'a l'gard de la Puissance qui l'aura notifie .
En foi de quoi, les Plnipoten-
tiaires ont sign la prsente Dclaration et l'ont revtue de leurs cachets .

Fait  La Haye, le vingt neuf juillet mil huit cent quatre-vingt dix-neuf, en un seul exemplaire qui restera dpos dans les archives du Gouvernement des PaysBas et dont des copies, certifies conformes, seront remises par la voie diplomatique aux Puissances contractantes .

belligerents is joined by a nonContracting Power.
The present Declaration shall be ratified as soon as possible.
The ratifications shall be deposited at The Hague.
A procs-verbal shall be drawn up on the receipt of each ratification, of which a copy, duly certified, shall be sent through the diplomatic channel to all the Contracting Powers.
The non-Signatory Powers may adhere to the present Declaration. For this purpose they must make their adhesion known to the Contracting Powers by means of a written notification addressed to the Netherlands Government, and communicated by it to all the other Contracting Powers.
In the event of one of the High Contracting Parties denouncing the present Declaration, such denunciation shall not take effect until a year after the notification made in writing to the Netherlands Government, and by it forthwith communicated to all the other Contracting Powers .
This denunciation shall only affect the notifying Power.
In faith of which the Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Declaration, and affixed their seals thereto .
Done at The Hague the 29th July, 1899 , in a single copy , which shall be kept in the archives of the Netherlands Government, and of which copies, duly certified , shall be sent through the diplomatic channel to the Contracting Powers.

Pour l'Allemagne:

(L. S. ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG. Pour l'Autriche - Hongrie :

(L. S. ) WELSERSHEIMB. (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI . Pour la Belgique : (L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. S. ) Cte de GRELLE
GIER.

RO-

(L. S. ) Chr DESCAMPS. Pour la Chine :

(L. S.) YANG Yu.

For Germany : (L. S. ) MUNSTER DERNEBURG.
For Austria- Hungary:
(L. S. ) WELSERSHEIMB (L. S. ) OKOLICSANYI. For Belgium :
(L. S. ) A. BEERNAERT. (L. S.) Cte. de GRELLE Ro-
GIER . (L. s. ) Chr. DESCAMPS. For China :
(L. S. ) YANG Yu.

DECLARATION- PROJECTILES FROM BALLOONS . JULY 29 , 1899. 1841

Pour le Danemark:
(L. S. ) F. BILLE . Pour l'Espagne :
(L. s. ) El Duque de TETUAN. (L. S.) W. R. DE VILLA URRU-
TIA.
(L. S. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER. Pour les Etats -Unis d'Amrique :
(L. S. ) ANDREW D. WHITE. (L. S. ) SETH LOW. (L. S. ) STANFORD NEWEL. (L. s. ) A. T. MAHAN. (L. s . ) WILLIAM CROZIER. Pour les Etats -Unis Mexicains : (L. s. ) A. DE MIER. (L. S. ) J. ZENIL. Pour la France : (L. s. ) LEON BOURGEOIS. (L. s. ) G. BIHOURD. (L. s. ) D'ESTOURNELLES DE
CONSTANT. Pour la Grce :
(L. S. ) N. DELYANNI. Pour l'Italie :
(L. S. ) NIGRA. (L. S. ) A. ZANNINI. (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ. Pour le Japon: (L. S.) I. MOTONO. Pour le Luxembourg: (L. S. ) EYSCHEN. Pour le Montngro : (L. S. ) STAAL. Pour les Pays- Bas: (L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. ( L. s. ) DEN BEER POORTU-
GAEL. (L. s. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. s. ) E. N. RAHUSEN. Pour la Perse : (L. S.) MIRZA RIZA KHAN,
Arfa - ud- Dovleh . Pour le Portugal:
(L. s. ) Conde de MACEDO . (L. s . ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNEL-
LAS DE VASCONCELLOS. (L. s.) Conde de SELIR. Pour la Roumanie :
(L. s. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. s. ) J. N. PAPINIU. Pour la Russie : (L. S. ) STAAL. (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. s . ) A. Basily. Pour la Serbie :
(L. s. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH. Pour le Siam :
(L. S. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR. (L. S.) VISUDDHA.
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -39

For Denmark: (L. S. ) F. BILLE .
For Spain: (L. s. ) El Duque DE TETUAN. (L. S. ) W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA.
(L. 8. ) ARTURO DE BAGUER. For the United States of America:
(L. S. ) ANDREW D. WHITE . (L. S. ) SETH LOW. (L. S. ) STANFORD NEWEL. (L. S. ) A. T. MAHAN. (L. S. ) WILLIAM CROZIER. For the United States of Mexico :
(L. S. ) A. DE MIER. (L. S.) J. ZENIL . For France : (L. S. ) LEON BOURGEOIS. (L. s. ) G. BIHOURD. (L. s . ) d'ESTOURNELLES DE
CONSTANT. For Greece :
(L. S. ) N. DELYANNI. For Italy:
(L. s. ) NIGRA . (L. S. ) A. ZANNINI . (L. S. ) G. POMPILJ. For Japan: (L. S. ) I. MOTONO. For Luxemburg: (L. S. ) EYSCHEN. For Montenegro : (L. S. ) STAAL . For the Netherlands : (L. S. ) V. KARNEBEEK. (L. S. ) DEN BEER POORTU-
GAEL.
(L. s. ) T. M. C. ASSER. (L. s . ) E. N. RAHUSEN. For Persia : (L. S. ) MIRZA RIZA KHAN,
Arfa-ud- Dovleh . For Portugal :
(L. s. ) Conde de MACEDO. (L. S. ) AGOSTINHO D'ORNEL-
LAS DE VASCONCELLOS. (L. s. ) Conde de SELIR. For Roumania :
(L. S. ) A. BELDIMAN. (L. S.) J. N. PAPINIU. For Russia: (L. S. ) STAAL . (L. S. ) MARTENS. (L. 8. ) A. BASILY. For Servia :
(L. S. ) CHEDO MIYATOVITCH. For Siam :
(L. S. ) PHYA SURIYA NUVATR. (L. 8. ) VISUDDHA.

1842 DECLARATION- PROJECTILES FROM BALLOONS . JULY 29 , 1899.

Ratification. Proclamation .

Pour les Royaumes Unis de Sude et de Norvge : (L. S.) BILDT.
Pour la Suisse :
(L. S. ) ROTH. Pour la Turquie:
(L. 8. ) TURKHAN. (L. S. ) M. NOURY. (L. S. ) ABDULLAH . (L. S. ) R. MEHEMMED. Pour la Bulgarie: (L. S. ) D. STANCIOFF. (L. S. ) Major HESSAPTCHIEFF.

For the United Kingdom of Sweden and Norway : (L. S.) BILDT.
For Switzerland : (L. S.) ROTH.
For Turkey:
(L. S. ) TURKHAN. (L. S.) M. NOURY.
(L. S. ) ABDULLAH. (L. S. ) R. MEHEMMED. For Bulgaria: (L. S. ) D. STANCIOFF.
(L. s. ) Major HESSAPTCHIEFF.

Certifi pour copie conforme, Le Secrtaire Gnral du Dpartement des Affaires Etrangres ,
LH RUYSSENAERS

Certified as a true copy, Secretary General of the Department of Foreign Affairs,
L. H. RUYSSENAERS.

LA HAYE, le 31 janvier, 1900.

THE HAGUE, January 31, 1900.

And Whereas, the said Declaration was duly ratified by the Govern ment of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Governments of the other Powers aforesaid , with the exception of those of China and Turkey;
And Whereas, in pursuance of a stipulation of the said Declaration, the ratifications thereof were deposited at the Hague on the 4th . day of September, 1900, by the Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the United States of America, Austria- Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Siam, Sweden and Norway, and Bulgaria ; on the 6th . day of October, 1900 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Japan; on the 16th. day of October, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Montenegro; on the 29th. day of December, 1900, by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Switzerland ; on the 4th . day of April , 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Greece ; on the 17th. day of April , 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Mexico ; on the 11th. day of May, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Servia, and on the 12th. day of July, 1901 , by the Plenipotentiary of the Government of Luxembourg;
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Declaration to be made public , to the end that the same and every clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this first day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one , and

[L. S. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

FEBRUARY 12 , 1900, PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- NEW ZEALAND . APRIL 18, 1900.

1843

Parcels-post Convention between the United States of America and New Zealand.

February 12, 1900. April 18, 1900.

For the purpose of making better postal arrangements between the United States of America and New Zealand, the undersigned , Charles
Emory Smith, Postmaster General of the United States of America, and Joseph George Ward, Postmaster General of New Zealand, by virtue of authority vested in them, have agreed upon the following articles for the establishment of a parcels -post system of exchanges between the United States and New Zealand.

Preamble.

ARTICLE I.
Extent of convenThe provisions of this Convention relate only to parcels of mail mat- tiEoxnt. ter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements now existing under the Universal Postal Union Convention , which will continue as heretofore ; and all the agreements hereinafter contained apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these articles.

ARTICLE II .

Articles admitted to 1. There shall be admitted to the mails exchanged under this Con- the mails.
vention articles of merchandise and mail matter-except letters, post-

cards, and written matter-of all kinds that are admitted under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, except that no packet may exceed eleven pounds (or five kilograms) in weight, nor the following dimensions : Greatest length in any direction , three feet

six inches ; greatest length and girth combined , six feet; and must be so wrapped or enclosed as to permit their contents to be easily examined by Postmasters and Customs officers ; and except that the following articles are prohibited admission to the mails exchanged under this Convention :-
Publications which violate the copyright laws of the country of destination; poisons, and explosive or inflammable substances ; fatty sub-

Articles prohibited.

stances, liquids and those which easily liquefy, confections and pastes ; live or dead animals , except dead insects and reptiles when thoroughly dried ; fruits and vegetables which easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad odor ; lottery tickets, lottery advertisements, or lottery circulars ; all obscene or immoral articles ; articles which may in

any way damage or destroy the mails or injure the persons handling

them .

2.

All admissible articles

of merchandise

mailed

in

one country for

Freedom spection.

from

in-

the other, or received in one country from the other, shall be free from

any detention or inspection whatever, except such as is required for

collection of Customs duties , and shall be forwarded by the most speedy

means to their destination , being subject in their transmission to the laws and regulations of each country respectively.

1844

FEBRUARY 12, 1900. PARCELS - POST CONVENTION-NEW ZEALAND. APRIL 18, 1900 .

ARTICLE III.

Letters must not ac-

company parcels.

1. A letter or communication of the nature of personal correspond-

Rejection.

ence must not accompany, be written on, or enclosed with any parcel. 2. If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails if sepa-

rable, and if the communication be inseparably attached , the whole

package will be rejected . If, however, any such should inadvertently

Address.

be forwarded , the country of destination will collect double rates of postage according to the Universal Postal Union Convention.
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an

address other than that borne by the parcel itself. If such enclosed

packages be detected, they must be sent forward singly , charged with new and distinct Parcel- Post rates.

ARTICLE IV .

Rates of postage. Delivery.

1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to be fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz:--
2. In the United States, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, twelve cents ; and for each additional pound, or fraction of a pound, twelve cents.
3. In New Zealand, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, sixpence ; and for each additional pound , or fraction of a pound, sixpence.
4. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the postoffices of address in the country of destination free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may , at its option , levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents (or two and one-half pence) for each parcel, whatever its weight.

ARTICLE V.

Receipt.

1. The sender will, at the time of mailing the package, receive a

certificate of mailing from the post-office where the package is mailed on a form like Form 1 annexed hereto.

Registry.

2. The sender of a package may have the same registered in accord-

Return receipt.

ance with the regulations of the country of origin. 3. An acknowledgment of the delivery of a registered article shall

be returned to the sender when requested ; but either country may

require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five cents . Notice to addressee. 4. The addressees of registered articles shall be advised of the arri

val of a package addressed to them, by a notice from the post - office of destination .

ARTICLE VI.

Customs declaration.

1. The sender of each parcel shall make a Customs declaration , pasted

upon or attached to the package, upon a special form provided for the

purpose (see Form 2 annexed hereto) giving a general description of

the parcel, an accurate statement of its contents and value, date of

mailing, and the sender's signature and place of residence, and place
of address .
Collection of duties. 2. The parcels in question shall be subject in the country of destina-

tion to all Customs duties and all Customs regulations in force in that

country for the protection of its Customs revenues ; and the Customs

duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on delivery, in accordance with the Customs regulations of the country of destination:

but neither sender nor addressee shall be subject to the payment of

FEBRUARY 12, 1900. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION-NEW ZEALAND.
APRIL 18, 1900.

1845

any charge for fines or penalties on account of failure to comply with any Customs regulation.
ARTICLE VII.

Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages, registration and delivery fees it collects on said parcels ; consequently this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.
ARTICLE VIII .

Fees to be retained.

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and New Zealand to be despatched to destination by the country of origin at its cost and by such means as it provides; but must be forwarded, at the option of the despatching office, either in boxes prepared expressly for the purpose or in ordinary mail sacks, marked " Parcels-Post, " and securely sealed with wax or otherwise, as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.
2. Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon , each country shall promptly return empty to the despatching office by next mail all such bags and boxes.
3. Although articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices, they should be so
carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of either country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.
4. Each despatch of a Parcels-Post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list , in duplicate, of all the parcels sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination , and the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such despatch (see Form 3 annexed hereto).

Transportation .
Return ofsacks, etc. Packing. Descriptive list.

ARTICLE IX .

Exchanges of mails under this Convention from any place in either country to any place in the other shall be effected through the postoffices of both countries already designated as exchange post-offices, or through such others as may be hereafter agreed upon ; under such regulations relative to the details of the exchange as may be mutually determined to be essential to the security and expedition of the mails and the protection of the customs revenues.

Exchange offices.

ARTICLE X.

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the office of destination , that office shall check the contents of the mail.
2. In the event of the parcel bill not having been received, a substitute should be at once prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on the parcel bill which may be discov-

Receipt of mail. Parcel bill. Errors.

ered should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected and

noted for report to the despatching office on a form " Verification Cer-
tificate, " which should be sent in a special envelope. Non-receipt of par
4. If a parcel advised on the bill be not received , after the non- cels.

receipt has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill should be canceled and the fact reported at once.
5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid , it must not be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the verification certificate form .

Insufficient postage.

1846

FEBRUARY 12. 1900. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- NEW ZEALAND. APRIL 18, 1900.

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars should be reported on the same form.
7. If no verification certificate or note of error be received , a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects.

ARTICLE XI.

Failure to deliver. 1. If a parcel can not be delivered as addressed, or is refused , it

must be returned without charge directly to the despatching office of

exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office

of destination ; and the country of origin may collect from the sender

for the return of the parcel a sum equal to the postage when first mailed.

Disposal of perish-

able articles.

2. When the contents of a parcel which can not be delivered are

liable to deterioration or corruption , they may be destroyed at once if

necessary, or, if expedient , sold, without previous notice or judicial

formality, for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each

sale being noticed by one post-office to the other.

Return postage orders for reforwarding.

3. An order for redirection or reforwarding must be accompanied

by the amount due for postage necessary for the return of the article

to the office of origin , at the ordinary parcel rates.

ARTICLE XII.

Noresponsibility for

loss, etc.

The Post Office Department of either of the contracting countries

will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any parcel, and con-

sequently no indemnity can be claimed by the sender or addressee in

either country.

ARTICLE XIII.

Furtherregulations. The Postmaster General of the United States of America and the Postmaster General of New Zealand shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and detail as may be found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to time ; and may, by agreement, prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article II of this Convention.

ARTICLE XIV.

Duration, etc. Signatures.

This Convention shall take effect, and operations thereunder shall

begin, on the first day of July, 1900; and shall continue in force until

terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of

either Department, upon six months ' previous notice given to the other.

Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington , the eighteenth day of

April, one thousand nine hundred, and at Wellington the twelfth day of February, one thousand nine hundred .

[SEAL . ]

CH. EMORY SMITH ,

Postmaster General ofthe United States of America.

[SEAL. ]

J. G. WARD,

Postmaster General of New Zealand.

Signed; sealed and delivered by the Honorable Joseph George Ward as Postmaster General of the Colony of New Zealand in the presence of
FRANK HYDE, Private Secretary, Wellington.

FEBRUARY 12, 1900. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- NEW ZEALAND . APRIL 18, 1900.

1847

The foregoing Parcels-Post Convention between the United States of

America and the Colony of New Zealand has been negotiated and con-

cluded with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified . In testimony whereof, I have caused the Great Seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL . ]

WILLIAM MCKINLEY.

By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, D. C. , April 18, 1900.

Approval.

FORM 1. Parcel Post. A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day:

Form 1.

Office stamp.

This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel, and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postmaster General.

1848

FEBRUARY 12, 1900. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- NEW ZEALAND. APRIL 18, 1900.

Form 2.

Date. Stamp.

FORM 2. A.
Parcel post between the United States and New Zealand.

FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Placeto which
the parcel is addressed.

Description of parcel: [State whether box,
basket, bag,
etc. ]

Contents.

Total Value. Per cent. customs
charges.

Total..

Date of posting:

19.; signature and address of sender: {

For use of Post-Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange:

Parcel Bill No.

No. of rates prepaid

Entry No.

B.
Parcel post from... The import duty assessed by an officer of customs on contents of this parcel amounts to $. which must be paid before the parcel is delivered.

Date. Stamp.

C.
Parcel post from .. This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs, and must be delivered
FREE OF CHARGE.

Customs Officer. Date. Stamp.

Postmaster- General.

FEBRUARY 12, 1900. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- NEW ZEALAND. APRIL 18, 1900.

1849-

|ENno.try roNafutemsber
.tp.or.e.paid

FORM 3.

Date stamp of the dispatching exchange
post-office.

Parcelsfrom ....

..for...

Parcel bill No.

dated 19..: per S. S.

* Sheet No.

Form 3.
Date stamp of the receiving exchange
post-office.

Origin of Name of Address of parcel. Declared Declared

parcel. sender.

contents. value.

Remarks.

Total.. $
When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail, it will be sufficient if the undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the parcel bill.
lbs. * Total number of parcels sent by the mail to *Total weight of mail.....

* Number ofboxes or other receptacles forming * Deduct weight of receptacles..

the mail.........

Signature of the dispatching officer at ...... *Net weight of parcels.....

post-office:

Signature of receiving officer at

post-office :

1850

TREATY- CHILE. APRIL 17 , 1900.

April 17, 1900.

Treaty between the United States and Chile providing for the extradition of criminals. Signed at Santiago, April 17, 1900; ratification with amendments advised by the Senate, December 18, 1900; ratified by the President, May 24, 1902; ratified by Chile, Febru ary 26, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Washington, May 27, 1902; proclaimed May 27, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Treaty between the United States of America and the Republic of Chile providing for the extradition of fugitives from justice was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Santiago , on the seventeenth day of April , one thousand nine hundred, the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Spanish languages is, (as amended by the Senate of the United States) word for word as follows :

Contracting parties. The United States of America

Plenipotentiaries.

and the Republic of Chile, being desirous to confirm their friendly relations and to promote the cause of justice , have resolved to conclude a treaty for the extradition of fugitives from justice between the United States of America and the Republic of Chile, and have appointed for that purpose the following Plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United

States of America , Henry L. Wilson, Envoy Extraordinary and

Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States in Chile, and the

President of Chile, Seor Don Rafael Errzuriz Urmeneta, Minister of Foreign Relations of Chile.

Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Los Estados Unidos de Amrica
i la Repblica de Chile, deseando confirmar sus amistosas relaciones i promover la causa de la justicia, han resuelto celebrar un tratado para la estradicion de los prfugos de la justicia entre los Estados Unidos de Amrica i la Repblica de Chile, i han nombrado al efecto los siguientes Plenipotenciarios :
El Presidente de los Estados Unidos de Amrica , al seor Henry L. Wilson , Enviado Estraordinario i Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos en Chile , i el Presidente de la Repblica de Chile, al seor don Rafael Errzuriz Urmeneta, Ministro de Relaciones Esteriores de Chile :
Quienes, despus de comunicarse sus respectivos Plenos Poderes, que encontraron en buena i debida forma , han acordado i concluido los artculos siguientes :

ARTICLE I.

ARTCULO I.

Reciprocal delivery The Government of the United woifthpecrrsiomness. charged States and the Government of
Chile mutually agree to deliver up
persons who , having been charged

El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos i el Gobierno de Chile convienen en entregarse mtuamente las personas que, habiendo sido acusa-

TREATY- CHILE. APRIL 17, 1900.

1851

with or convicted of any of the crimes and offenses specified in the following article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties , shall seek an asylum cr be found within the territories of the other : Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would
justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been there committed.

das o condenadas por alguno de los crimenes o delitos especificados en el articulo siguiente, i cometidos dentro de la jurisdiccion de una de las Partes Contratantes , busquen asilo o se encuentren en
los territorios de la otra ; siempre que ello se haga solo en virtud de pruebas tales de culpabilidad que, segun las leyes del lugar donde el prfugo o la persona acusada se encuentre, habria
habido mrito para su aprehension i enjuiciamiento , si all se hubiera cometido el crimen o delito.

ARTICLE II.

ARTCULO II.

Extradition shall be granted for the following crimes and offenses :
1. Murder, comprehending assassination , parricide , infanticide, and poisoning; attempt to commit murder ; manslaughter, when voluntary .
2. Arson. 3. Robbery, defined to be the
act of feloniosly and forcibly taking from the person of another money, goods, documents or other property by violence or putting him in fear; burglary.
4. Forgery, or the utterance of
forged papers ; the forgery or falsification of official acts of Gov-
ernment, of public authorities, or of courts of justice, or the utterance of the thing forged or falsified.
5. The counterfeiting, falsifying or altering of money, whether coin or paper, or of instruments of debt created by national, state, provincial, or municipal governments, or of coupons thereof, or of bank notes or the utterance or circulation of the same ; or the counterfeiting, falsifying or altering of seals of state.
6. Embezzlement by public officers ; embezzlement by persons hired or salaried, to the detriment of their employers where in either class of cases the embezzlement exceeds the sum of two hundred dollars ; larceny.
7. Fraud or breach of trust by a bailee, banker, agent, factor,

Se consider la estradicion por
los siguientes crimenes i delitos : 1. Homicidio, comprendiendo el
asesinato, parricidio , infanticidio i envenenamiento; tentativa de homicidio, homocidio impremeditado pero voluntario.
2. Incendio .
3. Robo, definido como acto de quitar maliciosa i forzadamente dinero, bienes, documentos u otra propiedad a otra persona, con violencia o intimidacion en ella; robo con fuerza en las cosas.
4. Falsificacion , o circulacion de papeles falsificados ; imitacion o falsificacion de documentos ofi-
ciales del Gobierno, de las autoridades pblicas o de los tribunales de justicia, o la circulacion de la cosa imitada o falsificada.
5. El delito de contrahacer, falsificar o alterar monedas , sea de metal o papel, de instrumentos de crdito creados por el gobierno nacional, por el de un estado, provincia o municipalidad , o de sus cupones, o de billetes de banco, o la emision o circulacion de los mismos ; o el delito de contrahacer, falsificar o alterar sellos del Estado .
6. Malversacion cometida por empleados pblicos ; malversacion cometida por personas contratadas o asalariadas, en detrimento de sus patrones; siempre que en uno i otra clase de casos la malversacion exceda de la suma de doscientos pesos de 48d ; hurto.
7. Fraude o abuso de confianza de un depositario, banquero,

Extraditable crimes. Murder, etc. Arson. Robbery, etc. Forgery. Counterfeiting, etc.
Embezzlement.
Breach of trust, etc.

1852

TREATY- CHILE. APRIL 17, 1900.

trustee, or other person acting in a fiduciary capacity, or director or member or officer of any company,

ajente, factor, tenedor be bienes u otra persona que obre en carcter fiduciario, o de un director,

when such act is made criminal by miembro o empleado de una comthe laws of both countries and the paia, cuando las leyes de ambos

amount of money or the value of paises declaran criminoso semethe property misappropriated is jante acto i el dinero o el valor de not less than two hundred dollars . los bienes defraudados no es in-

Perjury.
Rape, etc.
Injuries to roads.

8. Perjury ; subornation of perjury.
9. Rape ; abduction ; kidnap-
ping . rail- 10. Willful and unlawful de-
struction or obstruction of rail-

ferior a doscientos pesos de cuarenta i ocho peniques.
8. Perjurio; instigacion a perjurar.
9. Violacion ; rapto ; sustraccion de personas.
10. Destruccion u obstruccion
voluntaria e ilegal de ferrocarriles ,

roads which endangers human life.

Crimes committed at sea.
Piracy.

11. Crimes committed at sea. (a) Piracy, by statute or by the

laws of nations.

Revolt, etc.

(b) Revolt, or conspiracy to re-

volt, by two or more persons on

poniendo en peligro la vida de personas .
11. Delitos cometidos en el mar.
(a) Pirateria, segun la lei o el Derecho Internacional.
(b) Motin, o conspiracion para amotinarse de dos o mas personas

board a ship on the high seas

against the authority of the master.

Destroying vessels,

etc.

(c) Wrongfully sinking or de-

stroying a vessel at sea, or at-

Assaults on board .

tempting to do so. ship (d) Assaults on board a ship on
the high seas with intent to do

grievous bodily harm.

Slave trading, etc.

12. Crimes and offenses against

a bordo de un buque en alta mar contra la autoridad del capitan .
(c) Sumersion o destruccion do-
losa de un buque en el mar, o tentativa de hacerlo .
(d) Atentados a bordo de un buque en alta mar con el propsito de causar dao corporal grave.
12. Crimenes i delitos contra las

Complicity.

the laws of both countries for the suppression of slavery and slave trading.
Extradition is also to take place

leyes de ambos paises relativas a la supresion de la esclavitud i a la trata de esclavos.
Tambien habr lugar a la estra-

for participation in any of the dicion por la participacion en cualcrimes and offenses mentioned in quiera de los crimenes i delitos

this Treaty, provided such partic- mencionados en este Tratado, siem-

ipation may be punished, in the pre que dicha participacion sea United States as a felony, and in castigada, en los Estados Unidos

the Republic of Chile by impris- como una felona , i en la Rupb-

onment at hard labor.

lica de Chile, con presidio u otras

penas mayores .

ARTICLE III.

ARTCULO III.

Requisitions.

Requisitions for the surrender

of fugitives from justice shall be
made by the diplomatic agents of the contracting parties, or in the absence of these from the

country or its seat of government,

may be made by the superior con-

sular officers .

Copy of sentence or warrant.

If the person whose extradition

is requested shall have been convicted of a crime or offense, a duly

authenticated copy of the sentence of the court in which he was con-

La demanda de entrega de pr-
fugos de la justicia, se har por los ajentes diplomticos de las Partes Contratentes, o si estuvieren ausentes del pais o de la residencia del Gobierno, podrn hacerla los funcionarios consulares superiores.
Si la persona cuya estradicion se solicita hubiere sido condenada por el crimen o delito , se exhibir una copia debidamente autenticada de la sentencia del tribunal que io haya

TREATY - CHILE . APRIL 17 , 1900.

1353

victed, or if the fugitive is merely charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest in the country where the crime has been committed, and of the depositions or other evidence
upon which such warrant was is sued, shall be produced.
The extradition of fugitives un-
der the provisions of this Treaty shall be carried out in the United
States and in the Republic of Chile , respectively, in conformity with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force in the state on which the demand for surrender is made.

condenado, o , si el prfugo estuviere simplemente acusado del crimen, se exhibir una copia debidamente autenticada de la rden
de arresto espedida en el pais donde se ha cometido el crimen , i de las
declaraciones u otras pruebas que han dado mrito a dicha rden.
La estradicion de prfugos en virtud de las disposiciones de este Tratado , se efectuar en los Esta-
dos Unidos i la Repblica de Chile , respectivamente, de acuerdo con las leyes que sobre estradicion estuvieren entnces vijentes en el Estado a quien se dirija la solicitud de entrega.

Proceedings.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTCULO IV.

Where the arrest and detention
of a fugitive are desired on telegraphic or other information in advance of the presentation of formal proofs, the proper course in the United States shall be to apply to a judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in extradition cases and pre-

Si el arresto i detencion de un Applications for provisional arrest.
prfugo se desearen por parte telleeggrrffiiccoo o de otro modo anticipndose a la presentacion de las pruebas formales, la via adecuada en los Estados Unidos consistir In the United States.
en dirijirse a un juez u otro ma-
jistrado autorizado para librar rdenes de arresto , en causas de

sent a complaint on oath, as provided by the statutes of the United States.
When, under the provisions of this article , the arrest and detention of a fugitive are desired in the Republic of Chile, the proper course shall be to apply to the Foreign Office, which will immediately cause the necessary steps to be taken in order to secure the provisional arrest or detention of the fugitive.
The provisional detention of a fugitive shall cease and the prisoner be released if a formal requisition for his surrender, accompanied by the necessary evidence of his criminality has not been produced under the stipulations of this Treaty, within two months from the date of his provisional arrest or detention.

estradicion, i , en presentar una querella bajo de juramento, segun lo disponen las leyes de los Estados Unidos .
Cuando, en virtud de las pre-

In Chile.

scripciones de este artculo, el arresto i detencion de un prfugo se desearen en la Repblica de Chile, la via adecuada consistir en dirijirse al Ministerio de Rela-

ciones Esteriores , el cual dispondr inmediatamente que se den los

pasos necesarios para asegurar el

arresto o detencion provisional del

prfugo.

La

detencion

provisional

del Dicharge on failure to make formal requi-

prfugo cesar i el preso ser smiotnitohns. within two puesto en libertad si dentro de dos

meses contados desde la fecha de

su arresto o detencion provisionales, no se hubiere formalizado , segun las estipulaciones de este Tratado, la reclamacion de su entrega acompaada de las pruebas necesarias de su culpabilidad.

ARTICLE V.
Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound to deliver up its own citizens or subjects under the stipulations of this Treaty .

ARTCULO V.

Ninguna de

las

Partes

Contra-

Neither party bound to deliver up

tantes estar obligada a entregar a its own citizens.

sus propios ciudadanos en virtud

de las estipulaciones de este Tratado .

1854

TREATY- CHILE . APRIL 17, 1900.

ARTICLE VI .

ARTCULO VI.

No surrender for po-

litical offenses.

A fugitive criminal shall not be

surrendered if the offense in re-

spect of which his surrender is demanded be of a political char-

acter, or if he proves that the requisition for his surrender has, in fact, been made with a view to

try or punish him for an offense

of a political character. Political offenses No person surrendered by either prior to extradition.
of the high contracting parties to

the other shail be triable or tried ,

or be punished, for any political

crime or offense , or for any act connected therewith , commited

previously to his extradition.

Decision.

If any question shall arise as to whther a case comes within the
provisions of this article, the decision of the authorities of the government on which the demand for surrender is made, or which may have granted the extradition , shall be final.

No ser entregado el criminal fujitivo si el delito con respecto al cual se solicita su entrega , es de carcter politico , o si prueba que la reclamacion de su entrega se ha formulado en realidad con el objeto de enjuiciarlo o castigarlo por un delito de carcter politico.
Ninguna persona entregada por una de las Altas Partes Contratantes a la otra , podr ser acusada o enjuiciada o castigada por algun crimen o delito politicos o por algun acto relacionado con ellos, cometido con anterioridad a su estradicion .
Dado que surjiere cualquiera cuestion acerca de si un caso cae bajo las disposiciones de este articulo , ser definitiva la decision que adopten las autoridades del Gobierno a quien se ha dirijido la solicitud de entrega o que haya concedido la estradicion.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTCULO VII.

No delivery if trial Extradition shall not be granted, barred by limitation.
in pursuance of the provisions of
this Treaty if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the penalty for
the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by lim-
itation, according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed.

No se conceder la estradicion
en conformidad a las disposiciones de este Tratado, si los procedimientos legales o la aplicacion de la pena correspondiente al hecho cometido por la persona reclamada, hubieren quedado escluidos por prescripcion, de acuerdo con las leyes del pais a que se ha dirijido el reclamo.

ARTICLE VIII .

ARTCULO VIII .

Trial to be only for offenses for which ex-

No person surrendered by either

tradited .

of the high contracting parties to

the other shall , without his consent, freely granted and publicly declared by him, be triable or tried

or be punished for any crime or offense committed prior to his ex-

tradition, other than that for which he was delivered up, until he shall have had an opportunity of return-

ing to the country from which he was surrendered .

Ninguna persona entregada por una de las Partes Contratantes a
la otra podr, sin el consentimiento prestado por ella libre i pblicamente ser acusada o enjuiciada o castigada por otro crimen o delito cometido ntes de su estradicion que aquel por el cual ha sido entregada , hasta tanto que no haya tenido oportunidad para regresar al pais de que ha sido estraida.

ARTICLE IX .

ARTCULO IX.

Disposition of articles seized with per-

All articles seized which are in

son.

the possession of the person to be

surrendered at the time of his

Todos los objetos secuestrados que al tiempo de la aprehension se hallaren en poder de la persona

TREATY- CHILE. APRIL 17 , 1900.

1855

apprehension , whether being the proceeds of the crime or offense charged, or being material as evidence in making proof of the crime or offense, shall, so far as practicable and in conformity with the laws of the respective countries, be given up when the extradition takes place. Nevertheless, the rights of third parties with regard to such articles shall be duly respected .

reclamada , ya sean fruto del crimen o delito imputados , o piezas que puedan servir de prueba del crimen o delito, debern, en cuanto fuere practicable i con arreglo a las leyes de los respectivos paises, entregarse al tener lugar la estradicion. Sin embargo se respectarn debidamente los derechos de terceros en rden a esos objetos .

ARTICLE X.

ARTCULO X.

If the individual claimed by one of the high contracting parties, in pursuance of the present Treaty, shall also be claimed by one , or several other powers on account of crimes or offenses committed
within their respective jurisdictions, his extradition shall be granted to the state whose demand is first received : Provided, that the government from which extradition is sought is note bound by treaty to give preference otherwise.
ARTICLE XI.

Si el individuo reclamado por twPoeorrsomnosrcelcaoiumnetdribesy.
una de las Atlas Partes Contratantes, en conformidad al presente Tratado, fuere reclamado tambien por una o varias otras Potencias en razon de crimenes o delitos come
tidos dentro de sus respectivas jurisdicciones, su estradicion se conceder al Estado cuya solicitud se haya recibido primero, siempre que el Gobierno de quien se solicite la estradicion no est sujeto por tratado a dar preferencia a otro.
ARTCULO XI.

The expenses incurred in the arrest, detention, examination, and
delivery of fugitives under this Treaty shall be borne by the state in whose name the extradition is sought : Provided , that the demanding government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such public officers of the government from which extradition is sought as receive a fixed salary ; And, provided, that the charge for the services of such public officers as receive only fees or perquisites shall not exceed their customary fees for the acts or services performed by them had such acts or services been performed in ordinary criminal proceedings under the laws of the country of which they are officers.

Los gastos ocasionados por el arresto , detencion, exmen i en-
trega de los prfugos en virtud de este Tratado, sern de cargo al Estado en cuyo nombre se pida la estradicion ; siendo entendido que el Gobierno solicitante no estar obligado a hacer ningun desembolso por servicios de los empleados pblicos del Gobierno a quien se pida la estradicion , que perciben sueido fijo ; i bien entendido que el gravmen por los servicios de los empleados pblicos que solo perciben derechos o emolumentos, no exceder el de sus aranceles
acostumbrados en los actos o servicios ejecutados por ellos como si dichos actos o servicios lo hubieran sido en procedimientos criminales ordinarios a virtud de las leyes del pais del cual son empleados.

Expenses.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTCULO XII.

The present treaty shall take effect on the thirtieth day after the date of the exchange of rati-

El presente Tratado empezar a
rejir el trijsimo dia despues de la fecha en que se hayan canjeado

Effect.

1856

TREATY - CHILE . APRIL 17, 1900.

fications, and shall not opperate

retroactively.

Exchange of ratifications.

The ratifications of the present

Treaty shall be exchanged at

Washington as soon as possible, and it shall remain in force for a

period of six months after either of the contracting governments

Signatures.

shall have given notice of a purpose to terminate it
In witness whereof, the respec-

tive Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the English and Spanish languages, and have hereunto affixed their seals .

Done in duplicate, at the city of
Santiago, this 17th day .of April 1900.

las ratificaciones, i no tendr efecto retroactivo .
Las ratificaciones del presente
Tratado se canjearn en Washington tan pronto como sea posible , i ste permanecer en vigor hasta seis mesas despues que cualquiera de los Gobiernos Contratantes haya notificado al otro su intencion de ponerle trmino.
En f de lo cual los respectivos
Plenipotenciarios han firmado los artculos precedentes en los idiomas ingles i espaol , i puesto al pi sus sellos.
Hecho por duplicado en la ciudad de Santiago, a los 17 dias de abril de 1900 .

HENRY L WILSON

[SEAL . ] R. ERRAZURIZ URMENETA [SEAL. ]

Ratification. Proclamation.

And whereas the said Treaty (as amended by the Senate of the United States) has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the twenty-seventh day of May, one thousand nine hundred and two ;
Now therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be

made public , to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof, (as amended) may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty-seventh day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred

[ SEAL ]

and two , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty sixth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

TREATY- BOLIVIA . APRIL 21 , 1900.

1857

Treaty between the United States and Bolivia for the extradition of fugitives from justice. Signed at La Paz April 21, 1900 ; ratification with amendments advised by the Senate December 18, 1900; ratified by the President August 2, 1901 ; ratified by Bolivia December 19, 1901; ratifications exchanged at La Paz December 23, 1901; proclaimed December 30, 1901.

April 21 , 1900.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ,

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a treaty between the United States of America and the Republic of Bolivia providing for the extradition of criminals was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at La Paz on the 21st day of April, one thousand nine hundred , the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Spanish languages, is, as amended by the Senate of the United States, word for word as follows:

Preamble.

TREATY OF EXTRADITION.

TRATADO DE EXTRADICIN.

Contracting powers.

The United States of America,
and the Republic of Bolivia, being desirous to confirm their friendly relations and to promote the cause
of justice, have resolved to conclude a treaty for the extradition
of fugitives from justice between the United States of America and the Republic of Bolivia, and have appointed for that purpose the following representatives plenipotentiary .
The President of the United
States to Dr. George H. Bridgman his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Bolivia, and the President of Bolivia to Dr. Eliodoro Villazn, his Minister of Foreign Relations, who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

La Repblica de Bolivia y la Repblica de los E. E. U. U. de Amrica , deseosas de estrechar sus relaciones de amistad y de servir
la causa de la justicia, han convenido en celebrar un Tratado
para la extradicin de los criminales que hayan huido de la justicia, tnto de Bolivia como de los E. E. U. U. de Amrica, y han designado con tal fin  los siguientes Plenipotenciarios :
El Presidente de la Repblica de Bolivia , al Seor Doctor Eliodoro Villazn , Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores. El Presidente de los E. E. U. U. de Amrica , al Seor Doctor George H. Bridgman, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario en Bolivia, quienes, despus de haber presentado sus respectivos plenos poderes y encontrndolos en buena y debida forma, han convenido en los siguientes artculos:

Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE 1 .

ARTCULO 1.

The Government of the United States and the Government of Bolivia, mutually agree to deliver up
VOL XXXII, PT 2--40

El Gobierno de Bolivia y el ofRecpieprrsoocnasl dcehlairvgeeryd Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , with crimes.
convienen en entregarse recpro

1858

TREATY- BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900 .

persons who , having been charged with or convicted of any of the crimes and offenses specified in the following article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the Evidence required . territories of the other : Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so
charged shall be found, would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been there committed.
ARTICLE II.

camente las personas que habiendo sido acusadas  convictas de cualesquiera de los crmenes  delitos especificados en el artculo siguiente, cometidos dentro de la jurisdiccin de una de las partes contratantes, busquen un asilo  san encontradas dentro del territorio de la otra, siendo necesario para ello que una prueba evidente de criminalidad, de acuerdo con las leyes del lugar en que el fugitivo  la persona acusada sa encontrada , justifique su aprehensin y compruebe la existencia del crimen  delito .
ARTCULO II.

Extraditable crimes. Extradition shall be granted for Seracordada la extradicin , por

Murder, etc. Arson .

the following crimes and offenses : 1. Murder, comprehending as-
sassination, parricide , infanticide, and poisoning ; attempt to commit murder; manslaughter, when voluntary .
2. Arson.

los siguientes crmenes y delitos : 1. Homicidio, comprendiendo
el asesinato, parricidio, infanticidio y envenenamiento , tentativa de asesinato, homicidio voluntario.
2. Incendio voluntario.

Robbery, etc.

3. Robbery, defined to be the act of feloniously and forcibly taking from the person of another

3. Robo, comprendindose en
esta palabra el acto de que una persona arrebate  otra su dinero

money goods, documents or other bienes documentos u otra propie-

property by violence or putting dad con felonia y violencia, por

him in fear; burglary.

la fuerza  por la intimidacin;

Forgery, etc.

saqueo. 4. Forgery, or the utterance of 4. Falsificacin de documentos

forged papers ; the forgery or fal y emisin de ellos , falsificacin de sification of official acts of govern- documentos oficiales del Gobierno,

ment, of public authorities, or of
courts of justice, or the utterance of the thing forged or falsified. Counterfeiting, etc. 5. The counterfeiting , falsify-

 de las autoridades pblicas,  de los tribunales de justicia y la circulacin de objetos falsificados.
5. La imitacin , falsificacin 

ing or altering of money, whether alteracin de la moneda , sa me-

coin or paper, or of instruments of debt created by national, state , provincial or municipal govern-

tlica  de papel  de los ttulos de la duda emitidos por los Gobiernos Nacional, del Estado , Provin-

ments, or of coupons thereof, or of bank notes, or the utterance or circulation of the same ; or the

cial  Municipal,  de sus cupones,  de billetes de Banco ,  la emisin  circulacin de ellos;  la imita-

Embezzlement.

counterfeiting, falsifying or altering of seals of state.
6. Embezzlement by public officers, embezzlement by persons hired or salaried , to the detriment of their employers where in either class of cases the embezzlement

cin  falsificacin de los sellos del Estado .
6. Defraudacin por empleados pblicos ; defraudacin por personas empleadas  sujetas  sueldo en perjuicio de sus Jefes siempre que en cualquiera de los diferentes

exceeds the sum of two hundred dollars; larceny. Breach of trust, etc. 7. Fraud or breach of trust by a
bailee, banker, agent, factor, trus-

casos, la defraudacin exceda de la suma de 200 dollars y hurto.
7. Fraude  abuso de confianza de un depositario, banquero,

tee, or other person acting in a agente , apoderado  otra persona

TREATY- BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900.

1859

fiduciary capacity, or director or member or officer of any company, when such act is made criminal by the laws of both countries and the

que administre bienes ,  director  miembro  administrador de alguna institucin, cundo dicho acto es considerado criminal por

amount of money or the value of las leyes de ambos paises y el . the property misappropriated is monto del dinero  el valor de la

not less than $200.00 . or B$ 500.00 .
8 Perjury ; subornation of perjury.
9 Rape, abduction ; kidnapping.
10 Willful and unlawful destruction or obstruction of railroads which endangers human life.
11 Crimes committed at sea :
(a) Piracy, by statute or by the law of nations.
(b) Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons on board a ship on the high seas against the authority of the master.
(c) Wrongfully sinking or de-

propiedad usurpada no baje de $200,  de B$ 500.
8. Perjurio  soborno para con-

Perjury, etc.

seguirlo . 9. Rapto, violacin y robo de Rape, etc.

una persona.

10.

Destruccin



obstruccin

Injuries roads, etc.

to

rail-

premeditada  ilcita de las lneas

frreas que pongan en peligro
vidas humanas . Crimes committed
11. Crmenes cometidos en el at sea.

mar.
Piracy. A. Piratera segun los regla-

mentos  las leyes de las Naciones. B. Rebelin  conspiracin para
la revuelta por dos  ms personas  bordo de una nave en alta mar

Revolt, etc.

contra la autoridad del Jefe .

Destruction of ves-

C. Hundir  destruir criminal- sels, etc.

stroying a vessel at sea , or attempting to do So.
(d) Assaults on board a ship on the high seas with intent to do

mente una nave en el mar  la

tentativa de hacerlo.

D.

Asaltar

Assaults  bordo de un navio board.

on

ship-

en alta mar con la intencin de in-

grievous bodily harm.

fligir un grave perjuicio corporal .

12. Crimes and offenses against

Slave trading, etc. 12. Crimenes y delitos contra

the laws of both countries for the las leyes de ambos pases relativas

suppression of slavery and slave-  la abolicin de la esclavitud y al

trading .

comercio de esclavos . La extra-

Extradition is also to take place dicin tendr tambin lugar por Complicity.

for participation in any of the la complicidad en cualesquiera de crimes and offenses mentioned in los crmenes y delitos enumerados

this Treaty, provided such partici- en este Tratado, con tal de que

pation may be punished, in the dicha complicidad pueda ser castiUnited States as a felony , and in gada como crimen, segun las leyes

Bolivia by imprisonment at hard de ambos pases. labor.

ARTICLE III.

ARTCULO III .

Requisitions for the surrender of fugitives from justice shall be made by the diplomatic agents of the contracting parties, or in the absence of these from the country or its seat of government, may be made by the superior consular officers .
If the person whose extradition is requested shall have been convicted of a crime or offense , a duly authenticated copy of the sentence of the court in which he was convicted, or if the fugitive is merely charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest in the country where the crime

Las requisitorias para la entrega Requisitions.
de los fugitivos de la justicia, sern hechas por medio de los Agentes Diplomticos de las partes contratantes  en ausencia de ellos del pas  del asiento del Gobierno ,
podrn ser hechas por los Agentes Consulares superiores.
Si la persona cuya extradicin waCrorpaynto.f sentence or es solicitada, ha sido convicta de
un crimen  delito , debe ser presentada una copia debidamente. autorizada de la sentencia del tri-
bunal ante el cual ha sido acusada ,  si el fugitivo ha sido simplemente acusado de crimen , una
copia debidamente autorizada del

1860

TREATY - BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900 .

Proceedings.

has been committed, and of the depositions or other evidence upon which such warrant was issued, shall be produced .
The extradition of fugitives
under the provisions of this Treaty shall be carried out in the United States and in Bolivia , respectively, in conformity with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force in the state on which the demand for surrender is made.

mandamiento de arresto en el pas dnde se ha cometido y de las declaraciones  otras pruebas en que dicho mandamiento se ha fundado.
La extradicin de los fugitivos
segn las prescripciones de este Tratado , ser efectuada en Bolivia y en los Estados Unidos respectivamente, en conformidad con las leyes que regulan la extradicin del pas ante el cual se ha hecho la peticin respectiva.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTCULO IV.

Applications for Where the arrest and detention provisional arrest.
In the United States. Of fugitive are desired on telegraphic or other information in advance of the presentation of for-
mal proofs, the proper course in the United States shall be to apply
to a judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in extradition cases and present a
complaint on oath, as provided by the statutes of the United States.

In Bolivia,

When, under the provisions of this article, the arrest and deten-

tion of a fugitive are desired in the Republic of Bolivia , the proper course shall be to apply to the Foreign Office which will immediately cause the necessary steps to be taken in order to secure the provisional arrest or detention of the

fugitive. Discharge on failure to make formal requi- The provisional detention of a sition within two fugitive shall cease and the prisoner months.
be released if a formai requisition
for his surrender, accompanied by
the necessary evidence of his crimi-

nality, has not been produced under the stipulations of this Treaty, within two months from the date of his provisional arrest or detention .

Cuando se pida el arresto  detencin de un ro prfugo , por telgrafo o por cualquier otro medio anterior  la presentacin de las pruebas en debida forma, el procedimiento en los Estados Unidos ser recurrir  un juez  otro magistrado con facultades para librar mandamientos de arresto en
casos de extradicin y presentar la demanda bajo juramento , como est establecido por las leyes de los Estados Unidos.
Cuando segn lo establecido por este artculo se dese el arresto y detencin de un fugitivo en Bolivia, el procedimiento ser recurrir al Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, el que tomar inmediatamente las medidas necesarias para asegurar su detencin  arresto provisional.
La detencin provisional de un fugitivo cesar y prisionero ser puesto en libertad si no se produce una requisitoria en forma para su entrega, acompaada de las pruebas suficientes de su criminalidad segn las estipulaciones de este Tratado, dentro de los dos meses de la fecha de su arresto provisional 6 detencin.

ARTICLE V.

ARTCULO V.

Neither country Neither of the contracting parbound to deliver its

own citizens.

ties shall be bound to deliver up

its own citizens or subjects under

the stipulations of this Treaty.

Ninguna de las partes contratantes estar obligada  entregar  sus propios ciudadanos segn las estipulaciones de este Tratado.

ARTICLE VI .

ARTCULO VI .

 surrender for political offense.

A fugitive criminal shall not be

surrendered if the offense in re-

spect of which his surrender is

Un criminal fugitivo no ser entregado, si el delito por el cual es solicitada su entrega tiene un

TREATY - BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900.

1861

demanded be of a political character, or if he proves that the requisition for his surrender has, in fact, been made with a view to try or punish him for an offense of a political character.
No person surrendered by either
of the high contracting parties to the other shall be triable or tried, or be punished, for any political crime or offense, or for any act connected therewith, committed previously to his extradition.
If any question shall arise as to whether a case comes within the provisions of this article, the decision of the authorities of the government on which the demand for surrender is made, or which may have granted the extradition , shall be final.

carcter poltico  si prueba que la peticin de su entrega ha sido hecha con el propsito de perseguirlo  castigarlo por un delito poltico .

Ninguna persona entregada por Political offenses una de las altas partes contratantes prior to extradition.

 la otra ser juzgable  juzgada ni ser castigada por ningun crimen  delito poltico  por ningun acto relacionado con ello, cometido ntes de su extradicin.
Si se suscitase cuestin sobre si

Decision.

el caso de que se trata est  no comprendido en las estipulaciones de este artculo , la decisin de la Autoridad del Gobierno ante el cual se ha hecho la demanda de entrega  la de que debe acordar la extradicin ser definitiva .

ARTICLE VII.

ARTCULO VII.

Extradition shall not be granted ,
in pursuance of the provisions of this Treaty, if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the penalty for the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by limitation , according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed.

No ser concedida la extradicin, baNroreddeblyivleirmyitiafttiroina.l en ejecucin de las estipulaciones de este Tratado, si los procedimientos legales  la ejecucin de la penalidad por el acto cometido por la persona reclamada ha quedado prescrita  limitada por las leyes del pas al cual se ha dirigido la requisitoria.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTCULO VIII.

No person surrendered by either

Ninguna persona que haya sido Trials to be only for

of the high contracting parties to entregada por una de las altas offenses for which ex-

the other shall , without his con- partes contratantes  la otra, podr

sent, freely granted and publicly sin su consentimiento, libremente declared by him, be triable or tried manifestado y pblicamente decla-

or be punished for any crime or rado, ser procesable  procesada,

offense committed prior to his ex- ni ser castigada por ningun cri-

tradition, other than that for which men  delito cometido en poca

he was delivered up, until he shall anterior  la de su extradicin y

have had an opportunity of return distinto  aqul por el cual sta ha

ing to the country from which he sido concedida mientras no haya

was surrendered .

regresado al pas de dnde fu

extraido .

ARTICLE IX .

ARTCULO IX.

All articles seized, which are in the possession of the person to be surrendered at the time of his apprehension, whether being the proceeds of the crime or offense charged, or being material as evidence in making proof of the crime or offense, shall, so far as practica-

Todos los objetos secuestrados  clDesispsoesiizetdionwiotfh apretri-la persona que debe ser entregada sons. al tiempo de su aprehensin , ya san productos del crimen  del
delito imputado  ya san capaces de dar una evidencia  prueba material del crimen  del delito , sern remitidos de acuerdo con las

1862

TREATY- BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900 .

ble and in conformity with the laws of the respective countries, be given up when the extradition takes place. Nevertheless , the rights of third parties with regard to such articles shall be duly respected.

leyes del pas en cunto sa posible  tiempo de concederse la extradicin . Sin embargo, los derechos de terceros sobre dichos objetos sern debidamente respetados .

ARTICLE X.

ARTCULO X.

Persons claimed by two or more coun-

If the individual claimed by one

tries.

of the high contracting parties, in

pursuance of the present Treaty, shall also be claimed by one or several other powers on account of crimes or offenses committed

within their respective jurisdictions , his extradition shall be

granted to the state whose demand is first received : Provided, That

the Government from which extradition is sought is not bound by

treaty to give preference otherwise .

Si el individuo reclamado por
una de las altas partes contratantes, en ejecucin del presente Tratado , fuere tambin reclamado por uno  vrios Estados distintos con motivo de crmenes  delitos co-
metidos dentro de sus respectivas jurisdicciones , su extradicin ser concedida  aqul cuya solicitud haya sido recibida primero, siempre que el Gobierno al cual es solicitada la extradicin no est comprometido por un Tratado  dar  otro la preferencia.

Expenses.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTCULO XI.

The expenses incurred in the arrest, detention, examination , and the delivery of fugitives under this Treaty shall be borne by the state in whose name the extradition is sought: Provided, that the demanding government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such public officers of the Government from which extradition is sought as receive a fixed
salary; And, provided, that the charge for the services of such public officers as receive only fees or perquisites shall not exceed their customary fees for the acts or services performed by them, had such acts or services been performed in ordinary criminal proceedings under the laws of the country of which they are officers.

Los gastos que se efecten en el arresto, detencin , identificacin y entrega de los fugitivos , segun este Tratado, deben ser  cargo del pas en cuyo nombre se ha pedido la extradicin . Sin embargo, el Gobierno demandante no estar obligado  ningun gasto por los servicios de los empleados pblicos del Gobierno al cual se ha
pedido la extradicin si stos estn sujetos  sueldos fijos. Todo
cargo por los servicios de dichos empleados pblicos cuando solo reciben premios  gratificaciones , no debe exceder de los usuales por
los actos  servicios prestados por ellos en los procedimientos criminales ordinarios segun las leyes del pas en el cual son empleados.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTCULO XII.

Effect.

The present Treaty shall take

effect on the thirtieth day after the

date of the exchange of ratifica

tions, and shall not operate retro-

actively .

Exchange of ratifi-

cations.

The ratifications of the present

Treaty shall be exchanged at La

Paz as soon as possible , and it shall

remain in force for a period of six

El presente Tratado se ejecutar  los 30 das despus de la fecha del cange de las ratificaciones y no podr tener efecto retroactivo.
Las ratificaciones del presente
Tratado sern cangeadas en la ciudad de La Paz, tan pronto como sa posible, y continuarn en vigencia por un perodo de seis meses

TREATY --BOLIVIA. APRIL 21 , 1900.

1863

months after either of the contracting governments shall have given notice of a purpose to terminate it.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the English and the Spanish languages, and have here unto affixed their seals .

despus de que uno de los Gobiernos contratantes haya manifestado al otro su propsito de ponerle trmino .
En fe de lo cual, los respectivos Plenipotenciarios han firmado los anteriores artculos en los dos idiomas Espaol  Ingls y fijado sus respectivos sellos.

Done in duplicate at the city of La Paz, Bolivia , this twenty first
day of April of one thousand nine hundred.

Hecho por duplicado en la ciudad de La Paz, Bolivia , el veintiuno de Avril de mil novecientos.

[SEAL. ] GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN [SEAL. ] ELIODORO VILLAZN.

ELIODORO VILLAZN. [ SEAL. GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN. [ SEAL. ]

Signatures.

And whereas the said treaty as amended by the Senate of the United States has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the

two Governments were exchanged in the City of La Paz, on the 23rd day December, one thousand nine hundred and one;
Now therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America have caused the said Treaty to be

made public , to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof , as amended, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington , this thirtieth day of December in

the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one,

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-sixth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

Ratification . Proclamation.

1864

TREATY- GREAT BRITAIN. DECEMBER 13 , 1900.

December 13, 1900.

Supplementary treaty of extradition between the United States and Great Britain. Signed at Washington December 13, 1900; ratification advised by the Senate March 8, 1901; ratified by the President March 28, 1901; ratified by Great Britain March 25, 1901; ratifications exchanged at Washington April 22, 1901; proclaimed April 22, 1901.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Supplementary Treaty of Extradition between the United

States of America and Great Britain was concluded and signed by their

respective plenipotentiaries at the City of Washington on the thirteenth

day of December, 1900, the original of which Treaty is word for word as follows: Contracting Powers. The President of the United States of America and Her Majesty the

Queen of Great Britain and Ireland , being desirous of enlarging the

Vol. 26, p. 1508.

List of Crimes on account of which Extradition may be granted under the Convention concluded between the United States and Her Britannic
Majesty on the 12th of July 1889, with a view to the better administra-

tion of justice and the prevention of crime in their respective territories and jurisdictions, have resolved to conclude a Supplementary Convention for this purpose and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, to wit :

Plenipotentiaries.

The President of the United States, the Honorable John Hay, Sec-

retary of State of the United States, and

Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, His Excellency the Right Honorable Lord Pauncefote, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honorable Order of the Bath, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George, and Her Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States ;

Who , after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, which were found to be in due and proper form , have agreed to and concluded the following Articles :

ARTICLE I.

Additional extradi-

table crimes.

The following crimes are added to the list of crimes numbered 1 to 10

in the first Article of the said Convention of July 12, 1889, on account

of which extradition may be granted, that is to say: Obtaining money under false pretenses. 11. Obtaining money , valuable securities or other property by false
pretenses . Destroying rail- 12. Wilful and unlawful destruction or obstruction of railroads roads.

Abortion.

which endangers human life. 13. Procuring abortion.

TREATY - GREAT BRITAIN. DECEMBER 13, 1900.

1865

ARTICLE II .

The present Convention shall be considered as an integral part of plFicoarbmlee.r treaty apthe said Extradition Convention of July 12 , 1889 , and the first Article. Vol. 26, p. 1508.
of the last mentioned Convention shall be read as if the list of crimes

therein contained had originally comprised th additional crimes specified and numbered 11 to 13 in the first Article of the present Convention.
The present Convention shall be ratified and the ratifications shall be exchanged either at Washington or London as soon as possible.
It shall come into force ten days after its publication in conformity with the Laws of the High Contracting Parties and it shall continue and terminate in the same manner as the said Convention of July 12 , 1889.

Ratification. Term.

In testimony whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention in duplicate and have thereunto affixed their seals .

Signatures.

Done at Washington this 13th day of December , 1900 . JOHN HAY PAUNCEFOTE

[ SEAL. ] [SEAL. ]

And whereas, the said Treaty has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the
City of Washington , on the twenty- second day of April, one thousand nine hundred and one;

Now, therefore, be it known that I, William McKinley, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be

made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 22nd day of April, in the year

of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one, and of the Independ-

ence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-fifth.

[ SEAL]

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President: JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

1866

CONVENTION- GUATEMALA. APRIL 15 , 1901.

April 15, 1901.

Convention between the United States and Guatemala for the reciprocal protection of trade- marks and trade-labels. Signed at Guatemala City, April 15, 1901; ratification advised by Senate, January 27. 1902; ratified by the President, February 1, 1902; ratified by Guatemala, April 5, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Guatemala City, April 7, 1902; proclaimed, April 11, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and

Guatemala providing for the reciprocal protection of Trade- Marks and Trade-Labels, was concluded and signed by their respective Plen-

ipotentiaries at Guatemala City on the fifteenth day of April, one

thousand nine hundred and one, the original of which Convention,

being in the English and Spanish languages is word for word as follows:

Trade-marks in Gua- With a view to secure for the temala and United

Con la mira de asegurar para las

States.

manufacturers of the United States manufacturas de los Estados

of Amrica, and those in the Re- Unidos de Amrica y las de la Re-

public of Guatemala, the recipro- pblica de Guatemala, la recproca

cal protection of their Trade- proteccin de sus Marcas de FMarks and Trade-Labels, the brica y Marcas de Rtulos, los In-

Undersigned , duly authorized to that effect, have agreed on the following dispositions :

frascritos , debidamente autorizados  ese efecto, han convenido en las siguientes disposiciones :

ARTICLE I.

ARTCULO I.

Reciprocal rights to citizens of each coun-

The citizens of each of the High

try.

Contracting Parties shall in the

Dominions and Possessions of the

other have the same rights as

belong to native citizens, in everything relating to Trade- Marks and Trade- Labels of every kind.

Provided , always, that in the United States the citizens of Guatemala, and in Guatemala, the citizens of the United States of Amrica , cannot enjoy these rights to a greater extent or for a longer period of time than in their native country .

Los ciudadanos de cada una de
las Altas Partes Contratantes tendrn en los Dominios y Posesiones de la otra los mismos derechos
como los pertenecientes a los ciudadanos nativos, en toda cosa relativa  Marcas de Fbrica y Marcas de Rtulos de toda especie.
Con tal que en todo caso en los Estados Unidos los ciudadanos de
Guatemala, y en Guatemala, los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos
de Amrica, no puedan gozar de estos derechos en mas gran extensin  por mas largo perodo de tiempo que en su pas nativo.

ARTICLE 11.

ARTCULO II.

Registration .

Any person in either country
desiring protection of his TradeMark in the Dominions of the

Toda persona en uno  otro pas que desee proteccin de su Marca de Fbrica en los Dominios del

CONVENTION- GUATEMALA. APRIL 15 , 1901 .

1867

other must fulfil the formalities required by the law of the latter ; but no person, being a citizen of one of the contracting States, shall be entitled to claim protection in the other by virtue of the provisions of this convention, unless he shall have first secured protection in his own country in accordance with the laws thereof.

otro debe cumplir las formalidades requeridas por la ley del ltimo ; pero ninguna persona , que sea ciudadano de uno de los Estados
contratantes, tendr derecho  reclamar proteccin en el otro en virtud de las disposociones de este convenio,  menos que haya primero obtenido proteccin en su propio pas de acuerdo con las leyes de l.

ARTICLE III.

ARTCULO III .

This arrangement shall go into effect immediately on or after the exchange of the ratifications and shall be in force until a year after it has been recalled by one or the other of the two High Parties .

Este arreglo se har efectivo inmediatamente en la fecha  despus del canje de ratificaciones , y quedar en vigor hasta un ao despus de que haya sido retirado por la una  la otra de las dos Altas Partes.

Effect.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTCULO IV.

The present convention shall be ratified by the President of the United States by and with the consent of the Senate thereof and by the President of the Republic of Guatemala, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Guatemala as soon as may be within twelve months from the date hereof.
In witness whereof the Under-
signed have signed the present convention and have affixed thereto the seal of their arms, in Guatemala the fifteenth day of April of one thousand nine hundred and one.
W. GODFREY HUNTER [ SEAL. ]

La presente convencin ser
ratificada por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos , mediante el consentimiento del Senado de los mismos, y por el Presidente de la Repblica de Guatemala, y las ratificaciones sern canjeadas en Guatemala tan pronto como se pueda dentro de doce meses de la fecha de la misma.
En testimonio de lo cual, los
Infrascritos han firmado la presente convencin y han puesto en ella el sello de sus armas, en Gua-
temala , el dia quince de abril de mil novecientos uno
JUAN BARRIOS M. [SEAL. ]

Ratification. Signature.

Exchange of ratifiAnd whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both cations.

parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged

in the City of Guatemala, on the seventh day of April , one thousand nine hundred and two ;
Now therefore , be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt , President

Proclamation.

of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to

be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this eleventh day of April , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States, the one hundred and twenty-sixth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : DAVID J. HILL ,

Acting Secretary of State.

1868

JUNE 20, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901.

June 20, 1901. October 12, 1901.

Convention for the exchange ofmoney orders between the United States of North America and the Republic of Bolivia.

Preamble.

The Post Office Department of the United States and the Postal Administration of the Republic of Bolivia being desirous of establishing a system of exchange of Postal Money Orders between the two countries, the undersigned , Dr. GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN, for the United States of America, and Dr. FEDERICO DIEZ DE MEDINA for the Republic of Bolivia , duly authorized for that purpose, have agreed upon the following articles:
ARTICLE I.

Exchange of money There shall be a regular exchange of Money Orders between the two orders.
countries .
ARTICLE II.

To be expressed in United States money.

The amounts of Orders in both directions shall be expressed in United

States money; and on account of the frequent fluctuations of the rate

of exchange between the two countries, it is agreed that all amounts

shall be converted into their proper equivalents by the Post Office Department of Bolivia ; that is to say, the sums received by the postal administration of Bolivia for Orders drawn on the United States , shall

be converted at the time of issue into United States money, at the

current rate of exchange, and the amounts of Orders drawn in the United States on Bolivia shall in like manner be rendered by the postal

administration of Bolivia into the currency of Bolivia at the current rate of exchange on the day of the arrival of the list described in Article IX .

ARTICLE III .

Maximum amount.

1. The maximum of each Order is fixed at one hundred dollars ($100) . 2. No Money Order shall include a fractional part of a cent .

ARTICLE IV .

Payment in legal money, etc.

The amounts of Money Orders shall be deposited by the remitters

and paid to the payees in gold coin, or in other legal money of the

same current value. However, in case there should be in circulation

in either country a paper currency of legal tender but of less value

than gold, the Administration of that country shall have the right to

receive and employ the same in its relations with the public taking into account the difference of value.

Rates of fees.

ARTICLE V.
1. The Bolivian Post Department shall have power to fix the rates of fees paid by the public on all Money Orders issued in Bolivia, and the Post Office Department of the United States shall have the same power in regard to all Money Orders issued in the United States.

JUNE 20, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901..

1869

2.

Each country shall

communicate

from

time

to

time

to the

other

Fees payable in advance .

its tariff of charges (fees paid by the public) , which shall be established

under this convention , and these rates shall in all cases be payable in

advance by the remitters, and shall not be repayable.

3.

It is understood , moreover, that

each country is

authorized

to Temporary suspension of money orders

suspend, temporarily, the exchange of Money Orders should circum-

stances give rise to abuses or cause detriment to the postal revenue.

ARTICLE VI .

Each country shall keep the fees paid by the public charged on all Fees to be retained. Money Orders issued within its jurisdiction .

ARTICLE VII.

The service of the Postal Money Order System between the two countries shall be performed exclusively by the agency of offices of exchange . On the part of the United States the office of exchange shall be New York, . Y. , and on the part of Bolivia , La Paz .

Offices of exchange.

ARTICLE VIII .

No Money Order shall be issued unless the applicant furnish the name and address of the person to whom the amount is to be paid , and his own name and address ; or the name of the firm or company who are the remitters or payees, together with the addresses of each .

Names and address.

ARTICLE IX.

1. The particulars of all Money Orders drawn in the United States upon Bolivia shall be entered at the Exchange Office New York, N. Y. , in a list similar to the form marked " A " (in the Appendix) in which shall be shown the amount of each order in United States money, which list after having received the impression of the New York dating stamp, shall be forwarded to the Exchange Post Office of Bolivia, where it shall be impressed with the date stamp of that office, and where the requisite arrangement for effecting payment of the Orders shall be carried out.
2. In like manner the particulars of Money Orders drawn in Bolivia upon the United States shall be entered at the Exchange Office at La Paz in a list similar to the form marked " B" (in the Appendix) in which shall be shown the amount of each in the money of both coun-
tries, which list after having received the impression of the dating stamp of that office , shall be forwarded to the Exchange Office at New York, N. Y. , where it shall receive the impression of the dating stamp in use in that office , and where the necessary arrangements for effecting payment of the orders shall be carried out.
3. Each list, as well as the entries in the lists dispatched shall be numbered consecutively 1, 2 , 3 , 4, 5 , etc. , in the order of dispatcn , commencing on July 1st of each calendar year, and the receipt of each list shall be acknowledged on either side, by means of the first subsequent list forwarded in the opposite direction.
4. Such a list shall be transmitted by each mail dispatched from Bolivia to the port of New York, and vice versa , and of each list dispatched a duplicate shall be sent by the following mail.
5. Should it happen that, on the day when the list is to be dispatched , there are no orders to be certified for payment, the list must nevertheless be sent. But, in that event, the Exchange Office will write across
the list the words : " No Money Orders. " 6. Should any list, or the duplicate thereof, fail to be received in

Lists.
To be numbered. Duplicates, etc.

1870

MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA.

JUNE 20, 1901 . OCTOBER 12, 1901.

due course , the despatching Exchange Office, on receiving information to that effect shall transmit without delay a duplicate or triplicate of the list duly certified as such.
ARTICLE X.

Receipt of list from 1. As soon as the list of the dispatching office shall have reached the dispatching office, etc.
receiving office of exchange, the latter shall reissue Money Orders in favor of the payees for the amounts specified in the list , and shall
forward them free of postage to the addresses or to the offices of destination, in conformity with the regulations in each country for the payment of Morey Orders.
2. When the lists shall show irregularities which the receiving office shall not be able to rectify, that office shall demand an explanation with
as little delay as possible. Pending the receipt of the explanation the reissue of Money Orders of payment relating to the entries found to be erroneous in the list should be suspended.
3. One copy of each exchange list shall be returned by the receiving office of exchange to the dispatching office, but before returning such copy, the receiving exchange office shall enter therein the names ofthe respective offices of payment of the orders enumerated in the list, and , in the lists from the United States , returned by the Exchange Office at La Paz, the latter office shall also enter the amount of each Order in the money of Bolivia according to the conversion made by it.

ARTICLE XI.

Orders subject to

regulations governing 1. The Orders issued by each country on the other shall be subject,

domestic orders.

as regards payment, to the regulations which govern the payment of

Domestic Money Orders in the country on which they are drawn .

2. The paid orders shall remain in the possession of the country of

payment.

ARTICLE XII.

Errors.

When it is desired that any error in the name of the remitter or payee
shal! be corrected, or that the amount of a Money Order shall be repaid to the remitter, application must be made by the remitter to the postal administration by which the order was issued.

ARTICLE XIII.

Duplicates.

Duplicate orders shall only be issued by the postal administration of the country in which the original orders were payable and in conformity with the regulations established or to be established in that country.

ARTICLE XIV.

Repayment.

1. Repayment of orders to remitters shall not be made until an authorization for such repayment shall first have been obtained by the country of issue from the country where such orders are payable, and the amounts of the repaid orders shall be duly credited to the former country in the quarterly account. (Article XVI. ) .
2. It is the province of each postal administration to determine the manner in which repayment to remitters is to be made.

ARTICLE XV.

Orders not paid within twelve months 1. Orders which shall not have been paid within twelve calendar

void, etc.

months from the month of issue shail become void, and the sums re-

ceived shall accrue to and be at the disposal of the country of origin.

JUNE 20, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901.

1871

2. The Bolivian Postal Administration shall therefore , enter to the credit of the United States in the quarterly account all , Money Orders entered in the lists received from the United States which remain unpaid at the end of the period specified (Article XVI. )
3. On the other hand the Post Office Department of the United States shall, at the close of each month, transmit to the Bolivian Postal Administration , for entry in the quarterly account, a detailed statement of all Orders included in the lists dispatched from the latter office which under this article become void.
ARTICLE XVI.

1. At the close of each quarter an account shall be prepared by the Postal Administration of Bolivia showing in detail the totals of the lists
containing the particulars of Orders issued in either country during the quarter, and the balance resulting from such transactions.
2. Two copies of this account shall be transmitted to the Post Office Department of the United States at Washington, and the balance, after proper verification , shall , if due by the Post Office Department of the United States be paid at La Paz, but if due by the Bolivian Postal Administration it shall be paid in New York, and in the money of the country to which the payment is made.
3. Payments may also be made in money or by drafts, or by bills of exchange on points other than La Paz or New York, by mutual agreement between the two Departments.

Quarterly accounts.

ARTICLE XVII.

1. If pending the settlement of an account one of the two postal anRceem. ittance of baladministrations shall ascertain that it owes the other a balance exceeding one thousand dollars ($ 1,000) , the indebted administration shall promptly remit the approximate amount of such balance to the credit. of the other, but nothing herein contained shall prevent such administration from remitting a lesser amount than one thousand dollars ($1,000) at discretion. This account and the letters which accompany such intermediate remittances shall be in accordance with the forms
(" C " ) (" D " ) (" E " ) (" F " ) annexed to this Convention. 2. If payment by the debtor administration be not made within a
period of three months from the time such balance accrues , the creditor administration shall have the right to demand and receive interest thereon .
ARTICLE XVIII.

1. The postal administration in each country shall be authorized to adopt any additional rules (if not repugnant to the foregoing) , for greater security against fraud, or for the better working of the system generally.
2. All such additional rules however, must be promptly communicated to the Post Office Department of the other country.

Additional rule

ARTICLE XIX.

Each administration is authorized in extraordinary circumstances siToenmopfosreravriyce.suspen that would justify the measure, to suspend temporarily the Money Order service in whole or in part upon condition of giving notice of such suspension immediately to the other country, and if deemed necessary, by means of the telegraph.

1872

JUNE 20, 1901.
MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901.

ARTICLE XX.

Duration of Conven-

tion .

This present Convention shall take effect on the first day of Decem-

ber of 1901 , and shall continue in force until twelve months after either

Ratification.

of the contracting parties shall have notified to the other its intention to terminate it.
The ratification of the present convention shall be exchanged at

La Paz as soon as possible.

In witness whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles both in the English and the Spanish languages, and have hereunto affixed their seals.

Signatures.

Done in duplicate at the city of La Paz , Bolivia , this 20th day of June, 1901.

GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN.

[Seal of Bolivia. ]

FEDERICO DIEZ DE MEDINA.

WASHINGTON, D. C. , Oct. 12 , 1901 .

I hereby approve the foregoing.

CH. EMORY SMITH ,

[ Seal of United States. ]

Postmaster General of the United States.

Form A.

List. No .....

A,
Stamp of New York Exchange Office.

INTERNATIONAL MONEY ORDER EXCHANGE OFFICE,

New York, N. Y.,.....

19....

Sir: I have received the List No ........from your Office, dated..

.on the

The examination of the said (list) has demonstrated the correctness of the totals therein set forth,

to wit, amounts paid in......... ... dollars .....

...... cents . *

In turn I transmit to you, herewith, ( in duplicate) my List No. Orders amounting in the aggregate to ....... ...... dollars ....

of International Money .....cents.

Please examine , complete and return to methe original of the said list, with your acknowledgment of receipt endorsed thereon.

To the Director of Posts, International Money Order Exchange Office, La Paz, Bolivia.

Postmaster of International Money Order Exchange Office.

* All errors or discrepancies to be set forth below.

JUNE 20, 1901. MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901.
A. List No...... Sheet No...... Blanks to be filled by the United States Exchange Office.. Blanks to be filled by the Bolivian
Exchange Office.

1873

OaPwpftohafsiytccmehent

Remarks.

.itbmsoeade

 

1234ghant 99
1834

Pesos. Centavos.

List No ......

B.

Form B.

Stamp of the Exchange Office of New York.

INTERNATIONAL MONEY ORDER EXCHANGE OFFICE,

New York, N. Y., .......

........ 19 ....

SIR: I have examined your list of Money Orders, No... .dated the..

showing a total of.......

...dollars and ..

.....cents.

The said list has been found correct with the following exceptions, viz.:

.19.....

To the Postmaster at the International Money Order Exchange Office, La Paz, Bolivia

Postmaster at New York, N. Y.

C. Trimestre de 19.... ESTADO DETALLADO DE LISTAS .

Giros librados en Bolivia.

Nmero

Importe.

de la Fecha de la lista.

lista.

Dollars. Cents.

Giros librados en los Estados Unidos.

Nmero

Importe.

de la Fecha de la lista.

lista.

Dollars. Cents.

Form C.

Total VOL XXXII , PT 2--41

Total .

1874 Form D.
Form E. Form F.

JUNE 20, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901.

D.

POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT,

OFFICE OF FIRST ASSISTANT POSTMASTER GENERAL ,

MONEY ORDER DIVISION,

Washington, D. C.....

SIR: This Department has the honor to transmit herewith a Bill of Exchange No..

drawn

......... 19.....

... by ...

.19.... ..for......

of New York, N. Y. , to the order of the Postmaster General, and by his indorsement made payable to

your order by..

..at ..

Be pleased to cause the receipt of the said Bill of Exchange to be duly acknowledged, its payment

to be reported and the proceeds to be placed to the credit of this Department

...... on account of the exchange of Money Orders between our respective

countries during the quarter end....

....... 19 ....

I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

First Assistant Postmaster General.

E. Seor DIRECTOR-GENERAL DE CORREOS,

La Paz..

.de 19....

Washington, E. U. de America.

MUY SEOR MIO: Adjunto al presente oficio, tengo el honor de remitir  Ud. mi endoso de

libranza nmero.. .....por el valor de ..

.girada por................... ......... cargo

de ....

.pagadera  la vista en..

He de merecer  Ud. se sirva acreditar esa cantidad en nuestra cuenta de giros postales por el trimestre en curso.

Reitero  Ud. las seguridades de mi muy distinguida consideracin,

El Director- General de Corre08.

F. ..trimestre de 19.... ESTADO GENERAL. que manifiesta el resultado del cambio de giros postales entre Bolivia y los Estados Unidos.

 favor de Bolivia.

 favor de los Estados Unidos.

Giros expeditos en los Estados Unidos) y pagaderos en Bolivia segun el Estado detallado (C) .
Giros cuyo importe se ha reintegrado ..
Giros caducos
Pagado encuenta por la Administracion General de Correos de Bolivia . .19....
.19....
19....
19....

C Giros expeditos en Bolivia y pagaderos]
en los Estados Unidos segun el Estado detallado ...
Giros cuyo importe se ha reintegrado..
Giros caducos .....
Pagado en cuenta por el Departamento de Correos de los Estados Unidos .....
.19
.19 ....
.19 ....
.19

Crdito total de Bolivia Saldo  favor de los Estados Unidos ....

Crdito total de los Estados Unidos .. Saldo  favor de Bolivia

Se declara aceptado la cuenta anterior, reconociendose el saldo de............

.....dollars y ..

.....cents  favor de Correo de.

Bolivia,

.19 ....

EXAMINADO Y ACEPTADO :

Washington, D. C.

19....

Auditor por el Departamento de Correos de los Estados Unidos.

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1875

Amended Convention between the Post Office Department of the Dominion of Canada and the Post Office Department of the United States of America, for the purpose offacilitating the exchange of postal money orders, to take the place of the Amended Convention signed May 29-June 4, 1880.

SeOpctteombbeerr33, 01,910910.1 .

The Post Office Department of the Dominion of Canada and the Post Office Department of the United States of America being desirous of amending the system of exchange of Money Orders between the two countries, the undersigned , duly authorized for that purpose, have agreed upon the following articles amending the existing Convention .

Preamble. Vol. 20, p. 673.

ARTICLE I. -Issue.

The

transfer of

sums

of

money may be

made

by means of

Postal

Exchange of money orders.

Money Orders from the Dominion of Canada to the United States , and

from the United States to the Dominion of Canada.

ARTICLE II.- Form, maximum, etc.

Form , maximum, etc.

SEC. 1. The Money Orders issued in the Dominion of Canada for payment in the United States shall conform, as nearly as practicable, to model " A" hereto annexed , and the Money Orders issued in the United States for payment in the Dominion of Canada shall, in like manner, conform to model " B, " also hereto annexed.
SEC. 2. Each Order shall be delivered to the remitter thereof, to be forwarded by him at his own expense to the payee.
SEC. 3. In filling up the Money Order and Advice the writing must be in the English language, and in Roman letters and Arabic numerals, without alteration or obliteration, and no Order shall contain a fraction of a cent.
SEC. 4. The maximum amount of each Money Order is fixed at one hundred dollars.

ARTICLE III. - Transmittal ofpaid orders as basis ofsettlement.

Transmittal of paid orders as basis of set-
tlement.

SEC. 1. On the 1st, 9th , 16th and 23d of each month (on the next succeeding day if such date falls on Sunday, ) each Administration shall make out in duplicate , and forward a certified list of all Money Orders issued by the other Administration , which have been paid by and received from its inland offices and examined up to the date upon which such lists are prepared.
SEC. 2. These lists must exhibit in detail, and in alphabetical order , by States or Provinces as the case may be, the names of the issuing offices, the serial numbers printed on the Orders, and the amount of each Order. The sum total of each sheet of paid Orders must be stated in a summary attached to the lists.

SEC. 3. The lists shall be numbered consecutively throughout the fiscal year, beginning with number one on the 1st of July, and ending with the last number included in the business of the year.

1876

SEPTEMBER 30 , 1901. MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

Currency .

SEC. 4. One copy of each of the lists shall be transmitted on the part of Canada to the Auditor for the Post Office Department, at Washington, D. C. , and, in like manner, on the part of the United States, to the Superintendent of the Money Order Branch, Ottawa, Ontario.
SEC. 5. Every paid Order shall accompany the list on which it is entered, and both lists and paid Orders shall be forwarded under registered cover.
SEC. 6. Each Department shall promptly acknowledge to the other the receipt of every list, and shall, as soon after its receipt as possible, give notice of any errors which may be discovered therein.
SEC. 7. If at any time the packet containing the paid Money Orders, transmitted by one Administration to the other, be lost while in transit by mail, it is agreed that a certified copy of the lists shall , within a reasonable time, be accepted by the other Administration as a satisfactory voucher and evidence of payment of the Orders described therein which have been lost or destroyed.
ARTICLE IV. - Currency.

In the exchange of Money Orders between the two countries, one dollar in Canadian money shall be taken as the equivalent of one dollar in United States money.
This standard in either country shall be gold value.

Fees.

ARTICLE V. --Fees.

SEC. 1. A fee, to be fixed by the country of origin, shall be collected from the remitter upon each sum of money transmitted under this Convention .
SEC. 2. Each Administration shall communicate to the other the
tariff or schedule of the fees to be established by it under the provisions of this article, and also any subsequent change therein.
SEC. 3. The person entitled to payment of a Money Order issued in pursuance of this Convention shall not be subjected , under any pretext whatever, to any commission or tax on account of the payment of such Order.
SEC. 4. Each Postal Administration shall keep the fee which it receives for Money Orders issued within its jurisdiction , and no commission or charge wili be made by either Administration for any serv ices performed in connection with the exchange of Money Orders .

Payment, endorsement.

ARTICLE VI. - Payment, endorsement.

SEC. 1. Payment of a Money Order in pursuance of this Convention can be exacted only at the paying Post Office named upon the Order, and cannot be exacted until after the receipt by that office of the Advice required by Article VIII hereof, but the Chief Office in either country may , at its discretion , cause a Money Order to be paid at an office other than that named in the Advice.
SEC. 2. Each of the two Administrations reserves the right to authorize the transfer, within its territory, by means of endorsement, of the ownership of Orders originating in the territory of the other.

Lists of offices.

ARTICLE VII. - Lists of offices.

SEC. 1. The two Administrations shall designate, each for itself, the Post Offices which are authorized to issue and pay Money Orders under the provisions of this Convention.
SEC. 2. Each administration shall furnish to the other, from time to time, a list of the Post Offices within its jurisdiction authorized to

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-CANADA. OCTOBER 8, 1901.

1877

issue and pay such Orders, and also promptly notify the other of any changes to be made in said list.
SEC . 3. The lists for the United States and Canada shall respectively show the State or Province in which each Money Order office is located.
ARTICLE VIII. - Advices.

Advices.

SEC. 1. A Post Office in either country which issues a Money Order payable in the other is required to transmit to the Post Office charged with its payment , by the first mail after the issue thereof, an Advice corresponding in number, date and amount to the Money Order of which it forms a part.
These Advices must be enclosed in envelopes specially provided for the purpose, and are to be carried free from any charge. The address. shall include the State or Territory if payable in the United States ; and the Province if payable in Canada.
SEC. 2. Each Advice shall express legibly, and in written characters. the following, to wit:
(a) The name of the issuing office.
(b) The name of the paying office. (e) The amount which is to be paid to the owner of the Order in the country of destination .
(d) The surname, and the given name or names or at least the initials of the remitter and the payee, as well as the residence of the payee.
It will be sufficient, however, for the purpose, to make use in case of a business house of its business designation , and in case of a corporation, society, or other organization , the ordinary names accorded to such organizations will be sufficient.
SEC. 3. The Advices required by this article shall, if issued in the Dominion of Canada, conform as nearly as practicable to model " A(1) ," and, if issued in the United States, to model " B ( 1) , " both of which models are hereto annexed.

ARTICLE IX. - Duplicate advices.

Duplicate advices.

SEC. 1. At the request of the paying office a lost or missent Advice will be replaced without delay by a duplicate thereof, issued by the Post Office of original issue.
SEC. 2. Each application for a duplicate Advice shall be made upon a blank conforming or analogous to model " E " hereto annexed.

ARTICLE X. - Payment, limitation upon correspondence.

Payment, limitation upon correspondence.

SEC. 1. The Orders drawn by each country upon the other shall be subject as regards payment to the regulations which govern the payment of Domestic Money Orders in the country on which they are drawn .

SEC. 2. With the exception of Advices which are to be addressed and sent direct to the offices of payment by the offices of issue in each country , and ordinary inquiries relating to the exchange of Money Orders between the United States and the Dominion of Canada, no Postmaster is to be permitted to send correspondence to a Postmaster of the other country, excepting through the Chief Offices at Washington and Ottawa.

ARTICLE XI. - Invalid orders and advices.

Invalid orders and advices.

SEC. 1. The Money Orders issued in pursuance of this Convention shall be valid until the expiration of twelve months from the last day of the month in which issued.

1878

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY -ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA . OCTOBER 3, 1901.

Duplicates. Repayments.

SEC. 2. After the expiration of that period the Advices of unpaid Orders shall be returned to the Administration of the country of origin accompanied by a detailed statement.
ARTICLE XII. - Duplicates.
Orders lost or destroyed will be replaced by duplicates to be issued by the Administration of the country of origin on the receipt of a request therefor made by the Administration of the country of payment.
ARTICLE XIII . - Repayments.

A Money Order, or a duplicate thereof, may be repaid to the remitter upon presentation at the issuing office, but only in case the corresponding Advice is in the possession of the issuing Postmaster. For .this purpose, in case the Advice has gone forward, it shall be returned by the paying to the issuing Administration upon the request of the latter. In case of loss of the original Advice a certificate to that effect shall answer the purpose.

Accounts, balances .

ARTICLE XIV. - Accounts, balances.

SEC. 1. Within six weeks after the close of each fiscal quarter, two copies of an account shall be prepared, similar to model " F" hereto annexed, and transmitted to the Auditor for the Post Office Department of the United States by the Post Office Department of Canada, exhibiting the balance found due on the exchange of Money Orders during the quarter, one copy of which, after proper verification and acknowledgment, shall be returned to the Post Office Department of the Dominion of Canada. The latter will then send an acknowledg ment of receipt to the Post Office Department of the United States.
(a) If this verified account shows a balance in favor of the Post Office Department of Canada , that of the United States will transmit with the verified copy of the quarterly account a bill of exchange or certificate of deposit, payable at Ottawa, Canada , for the amount of said balance to the Post Office Department of the Dominion of Canada. The latter will then send an acknowledgment of receipt to the Post Office Department of the United States.
(b) If, on the other hand, said account, after verification and acknowledgment as aforesaid , shows a balance in favor of the Post Office Department of the United States, then the Post Office Department of the Dominion of Canada will, upon the receipt of the certified copy of the same, transmit to that of the United States a bill of exchange, for the amount thereof, on New York. The United States Post Office Department will then send in return an acknowledgment of receipt.
SEC. 2. If, pending the settlement of an account, one of the two Postal Administrations shall ascertain that it owes the other a balance
exceeding ten thousand dollars, the indebted Administration shall promptly remit the approximate amount of such balance to the credit of the other.
SEC. 3. The expense attending the remittance of bills of exchange shall invariably be borne by the Post Office Department by which payment is to be made.
SEC. 4. Payments may also be made in money, or by drafts or bills of exchange on other points than Ottawa and New York, by mutual agreement between the two Departments.

Use of vouchers.

ARTICLE XV.- Use of vouchers.
Each Administration agrees to place, temporarily, at the disposal of the other any paid Order, the return of which shall have been requested.

SEPTEMBER 30 , 1901 . MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1879

ARTICLE XVI . -Modifications of details.

Modifications of details .

The two Postal Administrations may, by mutual agreement, make
modifications, if found expedient, in matters of detail connected with the execution of the provisions of this Convention , in order to provide for greater security against fraud , or for the better working of the international system.

ARTICLE XVII . - Suspension of convention
Each of the two Administrations is empowered , under extraordinary sion ofservice. circumstances, which may be of a nature to warrant the measure, to suspend temporarily the Money Order service between the two countries, provided, however, that notice of such suspension be given to the other Administration immediately, and , if deemed necessary, by means of the telegraph.

ARTICLE XVIII. -In effect.

Duration of ConvenThe present Convention shall take effect when duly signed, and shall tion.
be considered as in force from the first day of July, 1901 , and shall

remain in force until one year after one of the two contracting

parties shall have notified the other of its intention to terminate it.

During such fiscal year the Convention shall continue to be fully and

entirely executed without prejudice to the adjustment and payment of the accounts after the expiration of the term in question.

Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington on the thirtieth (30th)

day of September, in the year 1901 , and at Ottawa on the third day

of October, in the year 1901 .

[ SEAL ]

CH. EMORY SMITH ,

Postmaster General of the United States.

[SEAL]

W. MULOCK,

Postmaster General of Canada.

Signatures.

1880

bTduiurmebarue .expediteur .pbTdauiuyrmebuarrue

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.
[Model A-Face. ]

CANADA.

(Name of office of issue.)

Stamp of issuing office.

VALUE OF THis order. VALEUR DU MANDAT.

Not over... N'excdant pas

MONEY ORDER. MANDAT D'ARGENT.

No. ......

.dollars. Amount Piastres.

[Montant. ] cts.

Pay to the person mentioned in advice- [ Payez  la personne mentionne dans l'avis]. Dollars and- [ Piastres et] Cents. [Centins.]

To the Post-Office at [Au Bureau de Poste ]]

Stamp of paying office.

Postmaster- [Maitre de Poste. ]

Received the above-named sum-- [Reu le montant du mandat ci-dessus] . Signature ....

After once paying a Money Order, by whomsoever presented, the Post Office will not be liable to any further claim.
The Order is payable only if presented within twelve months from the date of its issue.

Une fois qu'un mandat d'argent a t pay qu'il ait t prsent par qui que ce soit, l'Administration Postale ne sera tenue  aucune rclamation ultrieure.
Le mandat est payable pendant douze mois  partir du versement des fonds.

* This space is for use of paying Postmaster in * Cet espace est  l'usage du bureau de poste

another country.

tranger.

[REVERSE. ]
This Money Order is subject as regards payment and transfer by endorsement, to the existing Postal laws and regulations which govern the transfer and payment of Money Orders in the Country upon which it is drawn.
Le prsent mandat est sujet,  l'gard du paiement et de la transmission par voie d'endossement, aux lois de Poste et aux rglements qui gouvernent la transmission et le paiement des mandats dans le pays sur lequel il est tir.
Space for endorsement if any. Cadre rserv aux endossements, s'il y a lieu.

Pay for account of the undersigned. Payez  compte du soussign. To.. 
Money Orders lost or destroyed are replaced by duplicates. Mandats de Poste perdus ou dtruits sont remplacs par des duplicatas.

Payee. [ Bnficiare . ]

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1881

bTduiurmebarue .expediteur .pTbdaiuuyrmebuarrue

[Model A ( 1 )--Face. ]

CANADA. No.
(Name of office of issue.)

Stamp of issuing office.

VALUE OF THE ORDER. VELEUR DU MANDAT.

Not over N'excdant pas

.dollars. piastres.

Amount- [Montant.] cts .

ADVICE AVIS
of Money Order drawn by the above named office for de mandat d'argent tir par le bureau ci-dessus mentionn pour

Dollars and- [Piastres et]

Cents. [Centins. ]

To the Post-Office at [Au Bureau de Poste ]]

Stamp ofpaying office.

Postmaster [ Maitre de Poste.]
Payee Bnficiaire) Street and Number Rue et numro City or town Ville ou village) County, Department or State.. Remitter L'Envoyeur

MONEY-ORDER ADVICE. The Postmaster at

[REVERSE. ] POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, CANADA.

1882

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

[Model B-Face. ]

UNITED STATES POSTAL MONEY ORDER.

To be stamped here

(Name of office of issue)

.190

Pay to the order of

No.......
This ordermust correspond in particulars to its advice of same number and date.
.dollars....... cents. (Amount for which issued. >

In above spaces write the

amount in figures. On next

by paying office.

.dollars,.

..cents. line, in body of order, repeat

For dollars write words.

For cents use figures. the amount, there using a

word or words to express

To the Postmaster at

number of dollars.

The maximum amount for
which any postal order can lawfully be issued is one hundred dollars.
Sign name opposite when payment is made.

Received payment.

Dated stamp ofissuing office. Postmaster.

[ REVERSE . ]

iDtbaowse,hfwaefpyispefopnlhutairlecorhiedtc-ation ,yfawoahrrircahnt

ioptamtrothoedsensetremnaytster

,tsloaobhawnmteowndoaueuilrndt

,iowabsnrehnyvsdciaueoclermidhdes

lrtyfodmafhernasoteatoeynirmotnh

fIebtnpofxerhoarpfetyios-mreentnetd

.fotcimhrfhneeaunertegoef

(This space for stamps of banks; these are not regarded as endorsements. )

.FIHTNOHRFLEODREMRATION :1riaonthsD.htesroeiocdtlnseedirpt
.iptbmswoaheohirendsoeomny ,2tmoncaD.hurohnoidtaysienlrgaete 3dIoht.ohefrohisadlesinedrsreefrser wsptafhioehnoeglreornlstmohwneirng
.toTahfrhmidesoeurnt .Payee .ipeotlbMsrnhayoodeawrhoneirbsietmeednt

*

.ipotofrtion .oefndorsement
.tP.oa.y

..............

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1883

[Model B ( 1 ) Face. ]
U.S. POSTAL MONEY ORDER.
No. (Name of office of issue. )
ADVICE . 19C
A Money Order of above number and date has been drawn by me upon your office in favor of

For To the Postmaster at

dollars, cents.

.;ifrthDsohehericmertseieaitpctther

No.
RECEIPT FOR
U. S. POSTAL MONEY ORDER.
dollars, cents. (Amount for which issued.)
To be given by the issuing Postmaster to the purchaser, who will retain same and present it at the office where issued if necessary to make inquiry regarding the order.
Dated stamp of issuing office.

Name of remitter.. Address of payee: No. ......, street .

Postmaster.
Spacbeesfoilplpeodsiinte to with pen and ink.

1884

SEPTEMBER 30 , 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

oswRphanfdrhenadiomrdmrtsueieoletsndtser

[Model A ( 1 )--Reverse. ]

Stamp here the date of receipt.

This Advice must be dispatched bythe first mail afterthe issue ofthe Order. The Postmaster at the office drawn upon unless it is withdrawn by the issuing Postmaster on account of repayment, will keep the Advice carefully for one year from the last day of the month of issue, when, if the Order remains unpaid, it must be sent by him to the Department as an " Invalid Advice." If, on the other hand, the Order
has been paid at the office drawn upon, the Advice must be retained thereat for four years, after which it may be disposed of as waste paper.

(Form No. 6006

.190 ..

The spaces opposite are

to be filled in when the Form No. 6075

.190 ..

blanks named are used.

Form No. 6089

.190 ..

Memoranda of paying clerk , as to proof of identity, etc. , for reference in case of alleged improper payment.

Date ofpayment.

.stOweohrahnedstoerm

.St.eo.n.t .A.d.d.ress For

SEPTEMBER 30 , 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION -CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1885

[Model E-United States-Face. ]
(No 6006.) INQUIRY REGARDING A DEFECTIVE OR MISSING DOMESTIC MONEY ORDER OR ADVICE.
(For space for reply see other side of this sheet. )

When an Advice is missing the Postmaster drawn on will pass his pen through the space headed *Particulars of Advice, " and the issuing Postmaster will fill in and return without delay the Second Advice on the other side of this sheet.
If there is a discrepancy between the Advice and Order or statement of Payee, as to name, amount, etc., the Postmaster receiving this inquiry will carefully examine the application, and if it agrees with the First Advice, he will, if practicable, ascertain from the remitter what correction, if any, is required in the application, and will fill in the Second Advice on the opposite side of this sheet
accordingly. If the Order or statement of the Payee agrees with the application in its original form the particulars of the Second Advice should be filled in from that application.

PARTICULARS OF ADVICE.

PARTICULARS OF ORDER.

(Spaces to be filled in by Postmaster drawn on.)

No........ Amount, $........ Date.........190 No..

..... Date.............

.190

Issued at.. Payable at.. Remitter

(Written in body of Order Amount Indicated by figures on right-
hand margin of Order, $.. Issued at.
Payable at

Payee.....

Post-Office at.

Payee...

Date........

190

To Postmaster at the office where above Order was issued:

Payment ofthe above-described Money Order is delayed for the reason that *

(See instructions below. )

Please fill in and return Second Advice form upon the other side of this sheet. Postmaster drawn on.

* Here state whether by reason of defective Advice or Order." " original Advice not received. " " discrepancy between Advice and Order," or " between Advice and statement of Payee, " or between amount in letters in
body of Order and amount in figures at right-hand margin," etc.. giving in either case such full particulars as should enable the Postmaster who receives it to fully understand the cause of delay in payment. (OVER. )

1886

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901 . MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.



[Model E-United States-Reverse.]
SECOND ADVICE.
If used to take the place of an Advice spoiled in process of issue, cha.n. ge the above word " Second " to " First," draw the pen diagonally across the Inquiry " on the other side of this sheet, cancel the original Advice by drawing the pen across the face (thus X) and attach such original to the Second Advice.

Stamp date of payment here.

1. In case of discrepancy between the amount written in let-
ters in the body of the Order and the amount indicated by figures at the right-hand margin, pay-
ment may be made after receipt of a Second Advice naming either of these amounts.
2. When the original and Second Advices agree in naming a larger amount than is indicated in the Order, only the smaller amount should be paid, but the paying Postmaster should report the case, by letter inclosing both Advices, to the First Asst. Postmaster General, so that the latter may direct the issue of an additional Order for the residue.

(To be filled in by issuing Postmaster.)

No...

Date..

....190

(Write date of original issue.)

Amount, $..

Issued at...

Payable at Remitter,.

3. When an Order is paid on a Second Advice, write across the face ofthe Order the words " Paid in accordance with Second Advice," adding thereto a statement of the amount paid, if it be less than the amount originally indicated in either place on the Order.
4. The Postmaster to whom a Second Advice is sent will be
careful to preserve it on file in his office, and attach it to the original Advice, if that has been received, or should subsequently reach him.

Residing at Payee ...... Residing at. Remarks .

Issuing postmaster.

Stamp of issu ing office.

*The date written in this Advice mus be the original date of issue of the Money Order, while date of stamp must be the date on whicht his Second Advice is prepared and dispatched. This form must also be filled in when the original advice is imperfect or illeg. ible, because of the carbonized sheet having been used when upside down. The Depart-
madevnitcea.bsolutely forbids the use of pen and ink for filling in the particulars in an original

See footnote.

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY -ORDER CONVENTION-CANADA . OCTOBER 3 , 1901.

1887

[Model E-Canada--Face.]
This halfoftheform to be filled up by the Postmaster at the Office where the order is payable. Cette moiti de la formule doit tre remplie par le matre de poste du bureau o le mandat est payable.

SIR.MONSIEUR,-
The Advice of your Money Order No... L'avis de votre mandat de poste No.
dated dat
of$. de

POST OFFICE AT .... BUREAU DE POSTE DE

..day of.

.190

jour de

for the sum pour la somme
payable at this Office, not having been payable  ce bureau, n'ayant pas t

you will please fill up and immediately return this form. In the meantime, payment of the Order vous voudrez bien remplir et renvoyer immdiatement cette formule. Dans l'intervalle, le paiement
cannot be made. de votre mandat ne peut tre fait.

To the Postmaster Au Maitre de Poste
at.. de

Postmaster. Matre de Poste.

AdvWirciet. e here " received," " stamped," " signed," or other words denoting the irregularity in respect to the *Ecrivez ici "* reu. " " timbr," " sign, " ou autres mots dmontrant l'irrgularit relative  cet aivs.

[REVERSE. ] APPLICATION FOR 2ND MONEY ORDER ADVICE.

On His Majesty's Service.

The Postmaster at Province or State of...

Dy. P. M. Gen'l.

1888

SEPTEMBER 30 , 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

SECOND ADVICE.

CANADA.

SECOND AVIS.

This form is to be used when the Original

Advice is accidentally spoiled, or is reported

not to have reached its destination, not to have

been or to

bdueloytshtearmwipseed

doerfseicgtnieved.

by the This

Postmaster Second Ad

,

vice must agree in all particulars, except the Date Stamp with the Original.

Cette formule doit tre employe lorsque le premier avis est accidentellement gt , ou qu'il est rapport n'tre pas arriv  destination, n'avoir pas t rgulirement timbr ou sign par le matre de poste ou qu'il est autrement dfectueux . Le second avis doit tre sous tous
les rapports conforme au premier  l'exception du timbre  date.

.ebTdxuiuprmebdartueeur .[]asDdveauictsoend

Office of issue No.
Bureau d'mission )

Drawn by the above Office, upon the Post Office at

(Tir par le Bureau ci-dessus sur le Bureau de

Date of Original

Poste )

Advice.

(Date du premier avis. )

190

Stamp of issuing office. Date of 2nd advice.

Province, State, or country. (La Province, l'Etat ou le Pays.))

SUM OF THE ORDER.

dollars.

[MONTANT DU MANDAT.] cents.

THE PAYEE.

[BENEFICIAIRE. ]

The person to whom the order is payable.

[La personne  qui le Mandat est payable.]

Amount.- [ Montant . ] cts.

Christian name.- [Nom de baptme.]

Surname.-[Nom de famille.]

RESIDENCE OF PAYEE.
Street and number. [Rue et numro . ]

[RSIDENCE DU BNFICIAIRE. ]

City or Town. [Ville ou Village. ]

County, Department or Canton. [Comt, dpartement ou canton. ]

THE REMITTER. The person who purchased the Order.

[ L'ENVOYEUR . ] [La personne qui a obtenu le mandat. ]

Christian name.- [Nome de baptme.] Surname.-[Nom de famille.]

Rsidence.

Stamp of paying office.

.bpTduaiurymebaurure

Signature of Postmaster who draws the Order. [Signature du Matre de Poste qui tire le Mandat. ]
This advice must be dated , Cette Avis doit tre dat, timbr stamped and signed by the et sign parle Maitre de Poste Postmaster who draws the qui a tir le mandat. Order.

SECOND ADVICE.

[REVERSE. ]

The Postmaster at Province or State of

On His Majesty's Service. Dy. P. M. Gen'l

SEPTEMBER 30, 1901. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-CANADA. OCTOBER 3, 1901.

1889

[Model F-Face. ]

Account of the Exchange of Money Orders between the Dominion of Canada and the

United States during the quarter ended ..

190 ....

Orders issued in the Dominion of Canada paid Orders issued in the United States paid in the

in the United States.

Dominion of Canada.

Number of Date of Amount of Remarks. Number of Date of Amount of Remarks.

list.

list.

list.

list.

list.

list.

Dolls. cts.

Dolls. cts.

To credit of United States Postal De-
partment

To credit of Canadian Postal De-
partment ..

[REVERSE. ]

BALANCE.

POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, CANADA,

Dolls. cts.

MONEY ORDER BRANCH,

Amount of Orders paid to credit of
Amount of Orders paid to credit of Difference to credit of

Ottawa, ....... ......190..

Dolls. cts..
Paid on account by the Postal Department of
Paid on account by the Postal Department of
Difference of payments on account to credit of

SIR: I have the honor to enclose , in duplicate, the Account of the Exchange of Money Orders between the Dominion of Canada and the United States, for the quarter ended showing a balance due the Postal Department of
of the sum of $ I have the honor to be, sir,
your obedient servant,

Balance remaining due the Postal Department of

Paid on account by Paid on account by

the Postal Depart- the Postal Depart-

ment of the United ment of the Domin-

States.

ion of Canada.

Superintendent.
The SUPERINTENDENT MONEY ORDER SYSTEM, Washington, D. C.

Dolls. cts. Total..

Dolls. cts. Total..

The above Statement of Account is accepted

with a balance of$

due the Postal Depart-

ment of the

and one copy of

the Account is herewith returned.

VOL XXXII, PT 2- -42

1890

TREATY - SERVIA. OCTOBER 12, 1901. OCTOBER 25, 1901.

October 12, 1901. October 25, 1901.

Treaty between the United States and Servia for the mutual extradition of fugitives from justice. Signed at Belgrade, October 25, 1901; ratification advised by the Senate, January 27, 1902 ; ratified by the President, March 7, 1902 ; ratified by Servia, March 17, 1902 ; rati
fications exchanged at Belgrade, May 13, 1902 ; proclaimed May 17, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Treaty between the United States of America and Servia

providing for the extradition of fugitives from justice was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Belgrade on the twenty-fifth (twelfth) day of October, one thousand nine hundred and
one, the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Servian languages, is word for word as follows : Contracting parties. The United States of America and His Majesty the King of Servia,

being desirous to confirm their friendly relations and to promote the cause of Justice , have resolved to conclude a treaty for the extradition

of fugitives from justice between the United States of America and

Plenipotentiaries.

the Kingdom of Servia, and have appointed for that purpose the following Plenipotentiaries:
The President of the United States of America, Charles S. Francis,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Majesty the King of Servia.

His Majesty the King of Servia, M. Michel V. Voutch , President of His Council of Ministers, Minister for Foreign Affairs , Senator, Grand Officer of the Order of Milosh the Great, Grand Cross of the

Order of Takovo , Officer of the Order of the White Eagle etc. etc. ,

who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded

the following articles:

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal delivery of persons charged

The Government of the United States and the Government of Servia

with crimes.

mutually agree to deliver up persons who, having been charged with

or convicted of any of the crimes and offenses specified in the following

article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the high contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the territories of

the other: Provided , that this shall only be done upon such evidence

of criminality es, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive

or person so charged shall be found, would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been

committed there.

ARTICLE II .

Extraditable crimes. Murder, etc.

Extradition shall be granted for the following crimes and offenses: 1. Murder, comprehending assassination , parricide, infanticide , and

Arson.

poisoning; attempt to commit murder; manslaughter, when voluntary. 2. Arson.

The Servian text, in Russian characters, is necessarily omitted in print.

OCTOBER 12, 1901.
TREATY- SERVIA . OCTOBER 25, 1901.

1891

3. Robbery, defined to be the act of feloniously and forcibly taking from person of another money or goods, by violence or putting him in fear; burglary, defined to be the act of breaking, and entering by night, into the dwelling house of another, with intent to commit felony ; housebreaking or shopbreaking.
4. Forgery or the utterance of forged papers ; the forgery or falsification of official acts of government, of public authorities, or of

Robbing, etc. Forgery.

courts of justice, or the utterance of the thing forged or falsified . 5. The counterfeiting, falsifying or altering of money, whether
coin or paper, or of instruments of debt created by national, state ,

Counterfeiting, etc.

provincial, or municipal governments, or of coupons thereof, or of banknotes, or the utterance or circulation of the same ; or the counter-

feiting, falsifying or altering of seals , dies or stamps of state; of post-

age and revenue stamps.

6.

Embezzlement by public officers;

embezzlement by persons hired

Embezzlement, larceny, etc.

or salaried, to the detriment of their employers ; larceny; obtaining

money, valuable securities or other property by false pretenses, or receiving money, valuable securities or other property, knowing the

same to have been embezzled , stolen or fraudulently obtained , when

such act is made criminal by the laws of both countries and the amount

of money or the value of the property fraudulently obtained or

received, is not less than two hundred dollars or one thousand francs in gold.
7. Fraud or breach of trust by a bailee, banker, agent, factor,

Breach of trust, etc.

trustee, or other person acting in a fiduciary capacity, or director or member or officer of any company, when such act is made criminal by the laws of both countries and the amount of money or the value of the property misappropriated is not less than two hundred dollars or

one thousand francs in gold. 8. Perjury ; subornation of perjury . 9. Rape; abduction ; kidnapping.

Perjury. Rape .

10. Wilful and unlawful destruction or obstruction of railroads which Injuries to railroads, etc.
endangers human life.

11. Crimes committed at sea:

Crimes committed at sea.

a. Piracy, by statute or by the law of nations.

Piracy.

Revolt, etc. b. Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons on board

a ship on the high seas against the authority of the master.

c. Wrongfully sinking or destroying a vessel at sea, or attempting etDc.estroying vessels, to do so.

d . Assaults on board a ship on the high seas with intent to do grievous boAasrsda.ults on shipbodily harm.

12. Crimes and offenses against the laws of the United States of America for the suppression of slavery and slave trading.
Extradition is also to take place for participation in any of the crimes and offenses mentioned in this Treaty, provided such participation may be punished in the United States as felony and in Servia as crime or offense as before specified.

Slave trading, etc. Complicity.

ARTICLE III.

Requisitions for the surrender of fugitives from justice shall be made Requisitions.

by the Governments of the high contracting parties through their

diplomatic agents, or in the absence of such through their respective

superior consular officers.

If the

person whose

extradition

is

requested

shall

have

been

con-

Copy of sentence or warrant.

victed of a crime or offense, a duly authenticated copy of the sentence

of the Court in which he has been convicted , or if the fugitive is merely

charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest

in the country where the crime has been committed , and of the depo-
sitions or other evidence upon which such warrant was issued , shall be produced.

1892

OCTOBER 12, 1901. TREATY- SERVIA. OCTOBER 25, 1901.

Proceedings.

The extradition of fugitives under the provisions of this Treaty shall be carried out in the United States and in Servia, respectively, in con-
formity with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force in the State on which the demand for surrender is made.

ARTICLE IV.

Applications for provisional arrest.

Where the arrest and detention of a fugitive in the United States

In the United States. are desired on telegraphic or other information in advance of the pre-

sentation of formal proofs, complaint on oath, as provided by the

statutes of the United States, shall be made by an agent of the Gov-

In Servia.

ernment of Servia before a judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in extradition cases.
In the Kingdom of Servia the diplomatic or consular officer of the

United States shall apply to the Foreign Office, which will immediately

cause the necessary steps to be taken in order to secure the provisional

arrest and detention of the fugitive.

Discharge on failure to make formal requi-

The provisional detention of a fugitive shall cease and the prisoner

smiotnitonhs.within two be released if a formal requisition for his surrender, accompanied by the necessary evidence of criminality , has not been produced under

the stipulations of this Treaty, within two months from the date of

his provisional arrest and detention.

ARTICLE V.
Neither parties Neither of the high contracting parties shall be bound to deliver up bitosuonwdn tcoitdizeelnisv.er up its own citizens or subjects under the stipulations of this Treaty.

ARTICLE VI.

No surrender for A fugitive criminal shall not be surrendered if the offense in respect political offenses.
of which his surrender is demanded be of a political character, or if
he proves that the requisition for his surrender has, in fact, been made

with a view to try or punish him for an offense of a political character. Political offenses No person surrendered by either of the high contracting parties to prior to extradition. the other shall be triable or tried, or be punished, for any political

Decision.

crime or offense, or for any act connected therewith, committed previously to his extradition.
If any questions shall arise as to whether a case comes within the

provisions of this article , the decision of the authorities of the Gov-

ernment on which the demand for surrender is made , or which may

have granted the extradition, shall be final.

ARTICLE VII.

No delivery if trial barred by limitation .

Extradition shall not be granted , in pursuance of the provisions of

this Treaty, if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the penalty for

the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by limita-

tion, according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed.

ARTICLE VIII.

Trials to be only for offenses for which ex- No person surrendered by either of the high contracting parties to

tradited ,

the other shall, without his consent, freely granted and publicly declared

by him , be triable or tried or be punished for any crime or offense

committed prior to his extradition , other than that for which he was

delivered up , until he shall have had an opportunity of returning to

the country from which he was surrendered.

ARTICLE IX.

Disposition of articles seized with per-

All articles seized which are in the possession of the person to be

son.

surrendered at the time of his apprehension , whether being the pro-

TREATY- SERVIA . OCTOBER 12 , 1901 . OCTOBER 25, 1901.

1893

ceeds of the crime or offense charged , or being material as evidence in making proof of the crime or offense, shall, so far as practicable and in conformity with the laws of the respective countries, be given up to the Country making the demand , when the extradition takes place. Nevertheless , the rights of third parties with regard to such articles shall be duly respected.
ARTICLE X.

If

the

individual

claimed

by

one

of the

high

contracting

parties ,

Persons claimed by two or morecountries.

in pursuance of the present Treaty, shall also be claimed by one or

several other powers on account of crimes or offenses committed

within their respective jurisdictions , his extradition shall be granted to the State whose demand is first received : Provided , that the Govern-

ment from which extradition is sought is not bound by treaty to give preference otherwise.

ARTICLE X1.

The expenses incurred in the arrest, detention , examination , and Expenses.
delivery of fugitives under this Treaty shall be borne by the State in whose name the extradition is sought: Provided, that the demanding
Government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such public officers of the Government from which extradition is
sought as received a fixed salary ; and, provided , that the charge for the services of such public officers as receive only fees or perquisites shall not exceed their customary fees for the acts or services performed by them had such acts or services been performed in ordinary criminal proceedings under the laws of the country of which they are officers.
Effect. The present Treaty shall take effect on the thirtieth day after the date of the exchange of ratifications and shall not act retroactively. The ratifications of the present Treaty shall be exchanged at Belgrade caEtxiconhsa. nge of ratifias soon as possible, and it shall remain in force for a period of six months after either of the contracting Governments shall have given notice of a purpose to terminate it. In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed this Signatures.

Treaty in duplicate and have hereunto affixed their seals. Done at Belgrade this twenty- fifth (twelfth) day of October in the
year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one. CHARLES S. FRANCIS . [ SEAL. ] DR MICHEL VOUTCH [SEAL . ]

And Whereas the said Treaty has been duly ratified on both parts,
and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Belgrade, on the thirteenth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and two;

Now therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be

made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this seventeenth day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and of the

Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - sixth.

[ SEAL]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

1894

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26, 1901 .

October 26, 1901 .

Treaty between the United States of America and the Kingdom ofBelgium , for the mutual extradition offugitives from justice. Signed at Washington October 26, 1901 ; ratification with amendments advised by the Senate January 30, 1902; ratified by the President June 13, 1902; ratified by Belgium January 28, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Washington June 14 , 1902; proclaimed June 14, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Preamble.

A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and Belgium providing for the extradition of fugitives from justice was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington, on the 26th day of October, 1901 , the original of which Convention, being in the English and French languages is, as amended by the Senate of the United States, word for word as follows:

Contracting parties. The United States of America

and His Majesty the King of the Belgians, having judged it expedient with a view to the better administration of justice and the

prevention of crime within their respective territories and jurisdictions that persons charged with or convicted of the crimes and offences hereinafter enumerated , and being fugitives from justice, should, under certain circum-

stances, be reciprocally delivered up, have resolved to conclude a

Plenipotentiaries.

new Convention for that purpose and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United

States John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States ; and

His Majesty the King of the

Belgians ,

Mr. Charles C.

Wauters, Charg d'Affaires ad interim of Belgium near the Government of the United States ;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers , found in good and

Les Etats- Unis d'Amrique et
Sa Majest le Roi des Belges , ayant jug opportun, en vue d'une meilleure administration de la justice. et pour prvenir les crimes dans leurs territoires et jurisdictions respectifs, que les individus poursuivis ou condamns du chef des crimes et dlits ci-aprs numrs et qui se seraient soustraits par la fuite aux poursuites de la justice fussent, dans certaines circonstances, rciproquement extrads, ont rsolu de conclure une nou-
velle convention dans ce but et ont nomm pour leurs plnipotentiaires, savoir:
Le Prsident des Etats-Unis ,
John Hay, Secrtaire d'Etat des Etats - Unis , et
Sa Majest le Roi des Belges. Mr. Charles C. Wauters, Charg
d'Affaires ad intrim de Belgique prs le Gouvernement des tatsUnis ;
Lesquels, s'tant communiqu rciproquement leurs pleins pouvoirs respectifs et les ayant trou-

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26, 1901 .

1895

due form, have agreed upon and vs en bonne et due forme, sont concluded the following articles : convenus des articles suivants :

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE I.

The Government of the United

Le Gouvernement des Etats- Reciprocal delivery

of persons charged

States and the Government of Unis et le Gouvernement belge with crimes.

Belgium mutually agree to deliver up persons who, having been
charged, as principals or accessories, with or convicted of any of the crimes and offences specified in the following article committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the territories of the other: Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found , would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime had been there committed.

s'engagent  se remettre rciproquement les personnes qui, poursuivies ou condamnes comme
auteurs ou complices du chef de l'un des crimes et dlits numrs  l'article suivant, commis dans la jurisdiction de l'une des parties contractantes , chercheront un asile ou seront trouves dans les territoires de l'autre partie. Toutefois , l'extradition n'aura lieu que dans le cas o l'existence de l'infraction sera constate de telle manire que les lois du pays o le fugitif ou la personne poursuivie sera trouve, justifieraient sa dtention et sa mise en jugement, si le fait y avait t commis .

ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE II.

Persons shall be delivered up who shall have been convicted of or be charged, according to the provisions of this convention, with any of the following crimes :
1. Murder, comprehending the crimes designated in the Belgian penal code by the terms of parricide, assassination , poisoning and infanticide .
2. The attempt to commit murder.
3. Rape, or attempt to commit rape. Bigamy. Abortion.
4. Arson. 5. Piracy, or mutiny on shipboard whenever the crew, or part thereof, shall have taken possession of the vessel by fraud or by violence against the commander . 6. Larceny; the crime of burglary , defined to be the act of breaking and entering by night into the house of another with the intent to commit felony ; and the crime of robbery, defined to be the act of feloniously and forcibly taking from the person of another money or goods by violence or putting him in fear; and the correspond-

Seront livrs , en vertu des dis- Extraditable crimes.

positions de la prsente convention , les individus poursuivis ou condamns du chef de l'un des crimes ou dlits suivants :
1. Meurtre, y compris les crimes

Murder, etc.

qualifis dans le code pnal belge de parricide, assassinat, empoisonnement et infanticide ;

2. Tentative de meurtre ;

Attempt to commit murder.

3. Viol, attentat  la pudeur commis avec violence , avortement, bigamie ;
4. Incendie ; 5. Piraterie ou rbellion  bord
d'un navire, lorsque l'quipage ou partie de celui-ci aura pris possession du navire par fraude ou violence envers le commandant;
6. Vol, crime de " burglary" consistant dans l'action de s'introduire nuitamment et avec effraction ou escalade dans l'habitation d'autrui avec une intention criminelle , crime de " robbery " consistant dans l'enlvement forc et criminel, effectu sur la personne d'autrui , d'argent ou d'effets d'une valeur quelconque,  l'aide

Rape, etc. Arson. Piracy, etc.
Larceny, etc.

1896

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901.

Forgery.

ing crimes punished by the Belgian laws under the description of thefts committed in an inhabited house by night, and by breaking in by climbing or forcibly, and thefts committed with violence or by means of threats .
7. The crime of forgery, by which is understood the utterance

de violence ou d'intimidation et les
crimes correspondants prvus et punis par la loi belge, sous la qualification de vols commis dans une maison habite avec les circonstances de la nuit et de l'escalade ou de l'effraction, et de vols commis avec violences ou menaces;
7. Crime de faux, comprenant l'mission de documents falsitis

of forged papers, and also the counterfeiting of public, sovereign, or governmental acts. Counterfeiting, etc. 8. The fabrication or circula-

et la contrefaon d'actes publics, du gouvernement ou de l'autorit souveraine :
8. Fabrication ou mise en circu-

tion of counterfeit money either coin or paper, or of counterfeit public bonds , coupons of the public debt, bank notes, obligations, or in general anything being a title or instrument of credit ; the

lation de fausse monnaie ou de faux papier-monnaie ou de faux titres ou coupons de la dette publique, de faux billets de banque, de fausses obligations , ou, en gnral, de tout faux titre ou instrument de crdit

counterfeiting of seals and dies, impressions, stamps, and marks of State and public administra-

quelconque ; contrefaon de sceaux, empreintes, timbres ou marques de l'Etat et des administrations

tions, and the utterance thereof.

Embezzlement by 9. The embezzlement of public public officers,
moneys committed within the jurisdiction of either party by

public officers or depositaries. Embezzlement by 10. Embezzlement by any perprivate persons.
son or persons hired or salaried to

Post p. 1901.

the detriment of their employers, when the crime is subject to punishment by the laws of the place where it was committed, and the

publiques et mise en circulation de pices ainsi marques ;
9. Dtournement de deniers
publics commis dans la jurisdiction de l'une ou de l'autre partie par des officiers ou depositaires publics;
10. Dtournement commis par toute personne ou personnes employes ou salaries au dtriment de ceux qui les emploient, lorsque ces crimes entranent une peine selon les lois du lieu o ils ont t

amount of money or the value of the property embezzled is not less than two hundred dollars or one
thousand francs. Injuries torailroads, 11. Wilful and unlawful deetc.
struction or obstruction of rail-

commis ;
11. Obstruction ou destruction volontaire et illgale de voies fer-

roads which endangers human life.

Obtaining moneyby 12. Obtaining money, valuable false pretences.

securities or other property by

false pretences , when such act is made criminal by the laws of both

countries and the amount of

money or the value of the property

fraudulently obtained is not less than two hundred dollars or one

thousand francs.

Kidnapping .
Receiving stolen property.

13. Kidnapping of minors. 14. Reception of articles ob-

tained by means of one of the

crimes or offences provided for by

the present convention.

Attempts to commit crimes.

Extradition may also be granted

for the attempt to commit any of

the crimes above enumerated when

res qui puisse mettre en danger la vie humaine ;
12. Obtention d'argent, de titres et valeurs ou d'autre proprit sous de faux prtextes, lorsqu'un tel acte est jug criminel par les lois des deux pays et que le montant de la somme ou la valeur de la proprit obtenue frauduleusement n'est pas moindre de mille francs ou de deux cents dollars;
13. Enlvement de mineurs ; 14. Reclement des objets obtenus  l'aide d'un des crimes ou dlits prvus par la prsente convention .
L'extradition pourra aussi avoir lieu pour la tentative des faits numrs ci-dessus lorsqu'elle est

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26, 1901.

1897

such attempt is punishable by the punissable d'aprs la lgislation laws of both contracting parties. des deux parties contractantes .

ARTICLE III.

ARTICLE III.

A person surrendered under this convention shall not be tried or punished in the country to which his extradition has been granted , nor given up to a third power for a crime or offence, not provided for by the present convention and committed previously to his extradition , until he shall have been al lowed one month to leave the coun-
try after having been discharged; and, if he shall have been tried and condemned to punishment, he shall be allowed one month after having suffered his penalty or having been pardoned.
He shall moreover not be tried
or punished for any crime or offence provided for by this convention committed previous to his extradition, other than that which gave rise to the extradition , without the consent of the Government which surrendered him , which may, if it think proper , require the production of one of the documents mentioned in Article VII of this convention .
The consent of that Government
shall likewise be required for the extradition of the accused to a third country; nevertheless, such consent shall not be necessary when the accused shall have asked of his own accord to be tried or to un-
dergo his punishment, or when he shall not have left within the space of time above specified the territory of the country to which he has been surrendered .

L'individu extrad ne pourra fenTsreiasl. for other of-
tre poursuivi ni puni dans le pays auquel l'extradition a t accorde ni extrad  un pays tiers pour un crime ou un dlit quelconque non prvu par la prsente convention et antrieur  l'extradition ,  moins qu'il n'ait eu, dans l'un et l'autre cas, la libert de quitter de nouveau le pays susdit pendant un mois aprs avoir t jug, et, en cas de condamnation, aprs avoir subi sa peine ou aprs avoir t graci.
Crimes committed Il ne pourra pas non plus tre previous to extradipoursuivi ni puni du chef d'un tion. crime ou d'un dlit prvu par la convention , antrieur  l'extradi-
tion , mais autre que celui qui a motiv l'extradition , sans le consentement du gouvernement qui a livr l'extrad et qui pourra, s'il le juge convenable, exiger la production de l'un des documents mentionns dans l'article VII de la prsente convention.
Le consentement de ce gouver- coDuenltirvye.ry to a third
nement sera de mme requis pour permettre l'extradition de l'inculp  un pays tiers. Toutefois, se consentement ne sera pas ncessaire lorsque l'inculp aura demand spontanment  tre jug ou  subir sa peine ou lorsqu'il n'aura pas quitt dans le dlai fix plus haut, le territoire du pays auquel il a t livr.

ARTICLE IV .

ARTICLE IV.

The provisions of this convention shall not be applicable to persons guilty of any political crime or offence or of one connected with such a crime or offence . A
person who has been surrendered on account of one of the common crimes or offences mentioned in
Article II shall consequently in no case be prosecuted and punished in the State to which his extradition has been granted on ac-

Les dispositions du prsent coPmomliitttiecdal pcrrioirmetso trait ne sont point applicables extradition . aux personnes qui se sont rendues
coupables de quelque crime ou dlit politique, ou connexe  un semblable crime ou dlit. La personne qui a t extrade  raison de l'un des crimes ou dlits communs mentionns  l'article II , ne
peut par consquent , en cas, tre poursuivie et punie dans l'Etat auquel l'extradition a t

1898

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901.

count of a political crime or offence committed by him previously to his extradition or on account of
an act connected with such a political crime or offence , unless he
has been at liberty to leave the country for one month after having been tried and, in case of condemnation, for one month after
having suffered his punishment or having been pardoned. Attempts against An attempt against the life of heads of governments not political offenses. the head of a foreign government or against that of any member of his family when such attempt comprises the act either of murder or assassination , or of poisoning , shall not be considered a political offence or an act connected with such an offence .

accorde,  raison d'un crime ou dlit politique commis par elle avant l'extradition ni  raison d'un
fait connexe  un semblable crime ou dlit politique,  moins qu'elle n'ait en la libert de quitter de nouveau le pays pendant un mois aprs avoir t juge, et, en cas de condamnation, aprs avoir subi sa peine ou aprs avoir t gracie.
Ne sera pas rput dlit politique ni fait connexe  un semblable dlit, l'attentat contre la personne du chef d'un gouvernement tranger ou contre celles des membres de sa famille , lorsque cet attentat constituera la fait soit de meurtre, soit d'assassinat . soit d'empoisonnement.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE V.

Neitherpartybound Neither of the contracting parto deliver up its own

citizens.

ties shall be bound to deliver up

its own citizens or subjects under

the stipulations of this convention.

Les parties contractantes ne se-
ront point obliges de se livrer leurs propres citoyens ou sujets en vertu des stipulations de la prsente convention.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTICLE VI.

Persons under ar-

rest in country where If the person whose surrender

found .

may be claimed pursuant to the

stipulations of the present treaty shall have been arrested for the

commission of offences in the coun-

try where he has sought an asylum, or shall have been convicted there-

of, his extradition may be deferred until he shall have been acquitted

or have served the term of impris-

onment to which he may have been sentenced

Lorsque la personne, dont l'extradition est rclame aux termes du prsente trait aura t arrte  raison de faits dlictueux dans
le pays o elle a cherch un asile ou lorsqu'elle aura t condamne de ce chef, son extradition pourra tre diffre jusqu' son acquittement ou jusqu' l'expiration de la peine prononce contre elle.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE VII.

Requisitions .

Requisitions for the surrender of fugitives from justice shall be made by the respective diplomatic agents of the contracting parties , or, in the event of the absence of
these from the country or its seat of government, they may be made by superior consular officers .

Copy of sentence or If the person whose extradition warrant.
may be asked for shall have been convicted of a crime or offence, a
copy of the sentence of the court

Les demandes d'extradition se-
ront faites respectivement par les agents diplomatiques des parties contractantes.
En cas d'absence de ceux -ci soit
du pays, soit du sige du gouvernement, ces demandes pourront tre faites par les agents consulaires suprieurs.
Lorsque la personne dont l'extradition est rclame aura t condamne  raison du crime ou du dlit qu'elle a commis , la de-

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901.

1899

in which he may have been con- mande d'extradition ser accom-

victed authenticated under its seal, and attestation of the official character of the judge by the proper executive authority, and of the latter by the minister or consul of

pagne d'une expdition. authentique de l'arrt de la cour ou du jugement du tribunal qui a prononc la sentence, munie du sceau de cette juridiction. La signa-

the United States or of Belgium, ture du juge devra tre lgalise respectively, shall accompany the par l'agent comptent du pouvoir

requisition. When, however, the fugitive shall have been merely charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant for his arrest in the country where the crime may have been committed, and of the depositions upon which such warrant may have been issued, must accompany the requisition as aforesaid.

excutif dont la signature sera  son tour atteste respectivement par le Ministre ou le Consul des
Etats- Unis ou de Belgique. Quand le fugitif sera simplement prvenu d'un crime ou dlit , la rquisition devra tre accompagne d'une copie authentique du mandat d'arrt rendu  sa charge dans le pays o le crime aura t commis et

It shall be lawful for any com-
petent judicial authority of the United States, upon production of a certificate issued by the Secre-

des dpositions sur lesquelles ce mandat a t dcern.
Il sera loisible  toute autorit Provisional arrest in the United States.
judiciaire des Etats-Unis , sur la
production d'une attestation manant du Secrtaire d'Etat tablis-

tary of State stating that a request has been made by the Government of Belgium for the provisional arrest of a person convicted or ac-
cused of the commission therein of a crime or offence extraditable

sant qu'une demande a t faite par le Gouvernement belge en vue de l'arrestation provisoire d'une personne condamne ou prvenue d'un crime ou dlit passible d'extradition sous les stipulations de

under the provisions of this convention, and upon complaint duly made that such crime or offence
has been so committed, to issue his warrant for the apprehension of such person. But if the demand for surrender, with the formal proofs hereinbefore mentioned, be not made as aforesaid by the diplo-
matic agent of the demanding government , or, in his absence, by the competent consular officer, within forty days from the date of the commitment of the fugitive, the prisoner shall be discharged from custody .
Andthe Government of Belgium
will, upon request of the Govern ment of the United States, trans-

la prsente convention, et sur la plainte dment faite qu'un tel crime

ou dlit a t ainsi commis , de lancer un mandat d'arrt contre la

dite personne. Toutefois , si la Discharge on failure
demande d'extradition , accompa- to make formal requi-
gne des preuves en due forme sition in forty days.
mentionnes ci-dessus, n'est pas

faite, comme il est prescrit , par

l'agent diplomatique du gouvernement requrant, ou, en son

absence, par l'officier consulaire

comptent, en dans les quarante

jours de la date de l'arrestation du

fugitif, le prisonnier sera remis en libert.
Et le Gouvernement belge,  la inPrBoevligsiiuonma.l demande du Gouvernement des

arrest

Etats-Unis, transmise par l'agent

mitted through the diplomatic diplomatique des Etats - Unis , ou , agent of the United States , or, in en son absence , par l'officier con-

his absence, through the compe- sulaire comptent, assurera content consular officer, secure in con- formment  la loi l'arrestation

formity with law the provisional arrest of persons convicted or accused of the commission therein of crimes or offences extraditable under this convention . But if the demand for surrender, with the

provisoire de personnes condam-
nes ou prvenues de crimes ou
dlits passibles d'extradition en vertu de la prsente convention. Mais si la demande d'extradition, D to miasckhearfgoermoanlfailure requ. iaccompagne des preuves en due sition in forty days

1900

TREATY - BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901 .

formal proofs hereinbefore mentioned, be not made as aforesaid by the diplomatic agent of the demanding government, or, in his absence, by the competent consular officer, within forty days from the date of the commitment of the fugitive, the prisoner shall be discharged from custody

forme, n'est pas faite, comme il est dit ci-dessus, par l'agent diplomatique du gouvernement requ rant ou, en son absence , par l'officier consulaire comptent, en
dans les quarante jours de la date de l'arrestation du fugitif, le prisonnier sera remis en libert.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTICLE VIII .

Expenses.

The expenses of the arrest, detention, examination and delivery of fugitives under this convention shall be borne by the State in whose name the extradition is sought; Provided, that the demanding government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such officers of the government from which extradition is sought
as receive a fixed salary ; and provided that the charge for the services of such public officials as
receive only fees shall not exceed the fees to which such officials are entitled under the laws of the
country for services rendered in ordinary criminal proceedings.

Les frais occasionns par l'ar-
restation, la dtention , l'enqute et la remise des fugitifs livrs en vertu de la prsente convention seront supports par l'Etat requrant. Toutefois, le gouvernement requrant ne devra pas prendre  sa charge les frais du chef des services de ceux des fonctionnaires du gouvernement requis qui reoivent un traitement fixe ; et pour ce qui concerne les services des fonctionnaires publics qui ne reoivent que des moluments, il ne sera pas port en compte des moluments plus levs que ceux qui, selon les lois du pays , sont allous  ces fonctionnaires pour services rendus dans la procdure criminelle ordinaire.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE IX .

No delivery if trial Extradition shall not be granted , barred by limitation . in pursuance of the provisions of
this convention , if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the
penalty for the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by limitation , according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed.

L'extradition n'aura pas lieu
conformment aux dispositions de la prsente convention, si la prescription de l'action ou de la peine est acquise en faveur de l'individu rclam, d'aprs les lois du pays auquel la demande est adresse.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE X.

Disposition of arti- All articles found in the posses-

scloens. seized with per- sion of the accused party and ob-

tained through the commission of

the act with which he is charged,

or that may be used as evidence of the crime for which his extradi-

tion is demanded, shall be seized if

the competent authority shall so

order, and shall be surrendered

with his person .

Rights of third parties to be respected.

The rights of third parties to the

articles so found shall nevertheless

be respected.

Tous objets trouvs en la possession de l'individu rclam et provenant du fait incrimin ou pouvant servir de preuve au fait pour lequel l'extradition est demande, seront saisis , si l'autorit comptente en a ainsi ordonn, pour tre livrs avec sa personne.
Sont cependant rservs les droits des tiers sur les objets susmentionns .

TREATY- BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901.

1901

ARTICLE XI .

ARTICLE XI.

The present convention shall La prsente convention sera Effect.

take effect thirty days after the exchange of ratifications.
After it shall have taken effect, the convention of June 13, 1882 , shall cease to be in force and shall

excutoire trente jours aprs

l'change des ratifications.

A

partir

de

sa

mise



execution,

Termination of convention of June 13,

la convention du 13 juin 1882 ces- 1882.

sera d'tre en vigueur et sera rem- Vol. 22, p. 972.

be superseded by the present convention which shall continue to have binding force for six months after a desire for its termination shall have been expressed in due form by one of the two governments to the other.
It shall be ratified and its ratifi-

place par la prsente convention , laquelle continuera  sortir ses effets pendant six mois aprs qu'elle aura t dnonce par l'un des deux gouvernements.

Elle sera ratifie

et

les

ratifica- Exchange of ratifications.

cation shall be exchanged at Washington as soon as possible.
In witness whereof, the respect-
ive plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles both in the Eng-

tions en seront changes  Washington aussitt que possible.
En foi de quoi les plnipotentiaires respectifs ont sign les articles ci-dessus dans les langues

Signatures.

lish and French languages, and they have hereunto affixed their seals .

franaise et anglaise et y ont appos leurs sceaux.

Done, in duplicate, at the City of Washington this 26 day of October 1901 .

Ainsi fait par duplicata  Washington le 26 Octobre 1901 .

JOHN HAY [ SEAL. ] WAUTERS. [ SEAL . ]

And whereas the said Convention, as amended by the Senate of the United States, has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the fourteenth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and two ;
Now therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof, as amended , may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington , this fourteenth day of June in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and of the Inde-

pendence of the United States the one hundred and twenty -sixth .

[SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Ratification. Proclamation.

By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

DECLARATION

DCLARATION.

The Senate of the United States, by its resolution of January 30 , 1902 , having given its advice and consent to the ratification of the extradition treaty between the
United States and Belgium, signed

Le Snat des Etats-Unis , par sa rsolution du 30 Janvier 1902, ayant donn son avis et consentement  la ratification du trait d'extradition entre les Etats-Unis et la Belgique , sign  Washington

Declaration. Ante, p. 1896.

1902

TREATY BELGIUM. OCTOBER 26 , 1901.

at Washington on October 26 , 1901 ,
with the following amendment : I Addition to Article I. In Article II insert after the
word " committed " the following: "and the amount of money or the value of the property embezzled is not less than two hundred dollars or one thousand francs, " and
the said amendment being acceptable to the Government of Bel-
gium, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries before proceeding with the exchange of ratifications of the said treaty, and being duly authorized , have agreed to the following : Minimum amount embezzled for which Extradition may not be granted extradition will be for the offenses enumerated in granted . paragraph 10, Article II , of the said treaty unless " the amount of money or the value of the property embezzled is not less than two hundred dollars or one thousand francs . "
The present declaration shall have the same force and duration as the Extradition Treaty of which it forms an integral part.
Done in duplicate at Washington , the sixth day of June, 1902 .
JOHN HAY
Secretary of State ofthe United States of America.

le 26 Octobre 1901 , sous la rserve de l'amendement ci-aprs :
A l'article II, aprs le mot " commis," insrer ce qui suit : " et le montant de la somme ou la valeur de la proprit dtourne n'est pas moindre de deux cents dollars ou de mille francs . " et le dit amendement tant accept par le gouvernement Belge, les plnipotentiaires soussigns, avant de procder  l'change des ratifications du susdit trait et dment autoriss  cet effet sont convenus de ce qui suit :
L'extradition ne peut pas tre accorde pour les dlits numrs au paragraphe 10, article II du dit trait  moins que le montant de la somme ou la valeur de la proprit dtourne ne soit pas infrieur  deux cents dollars ou mille francs.
La prsente dclaration aura la mme force et dure que le trait d'extradition dont elle forme partie intgrante.
Fait en double  Washington,
le sixime jour de Juin , 1902. Le Ministre de Belgique, BN. MONCHEUR.

TREATY, SHIP CANAL- GREAT BRITAIN, NOVEMBER 18 , 1901 .

1903

Treaty between the United States and Great Britain to facilitate the construction of a ship canal. Signed at Washington, November 18, 1901; ratification advised by the Senate, December 16, 1901; ratified by the President, December 26, 1901; ratified by Great Britain, January 20, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Washington, February 21, 1902; proclaimed, February 22, 1902.

November 18, 1901 .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas, a Convention between the United States of America and Preamble.
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, to facilitate the construction of a ship canal to connect the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans , by whatever route may be considered expedient, and to that end to remove any objection which may arise out of the Convention of the Vol. 9, p. 995. 19th April, 1850, commonly called the Clayton - Bulwer treaty , to the construction of such canal under the auspices of the Government of the United States, without impairing the " general principle " of neutralization established in Article VIII of that Convention , was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries at the city of Washington on the 18th day of November, 1901 , the original of which Convention is word for word as follows :
The United States of America and His Majesty Edward the Seventh, Contracting powers. of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, and Emperor of India , being desirous to facilitate the construction of a ship canal to connect the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, by whatever route may be considered expedient, and to that end to remove any objection which may arise out of the Convention of the 19th April, 1850, commonly called the Clayton - Bulwer Treaty, to the construction of such canal under the auspices of the Government of the United States, without impairing the " general principle " of neutralization established in Article VIII of that Convention, have for that purpose appointed as their Plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United States , John Hay , Secretary of State of Plenipotentiaries . the United States of America;
And His Majesty Edward the Seventh , of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, and Emperor of India, the Right Honourable Lord Pauncefote, G. C. B. , G. C. M. G. , His Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States;
Who, having communicated to each other their full powers which were found to be in due and proper form, have agreed upon the following Articles :-
ARTICLE I.
The High Contracting Parties agree that the present Treaty shall 18T50r,esautpyerosfedAepdri. l 19, supersede the afore-mentioned Convention of the 19th April, 1850 .

1904

TREATY , SHIP CANAL- GREAT BRITAIN . NOVEMBER 18 , 1901 .

ARTICLE II.

United States to construct and control It is agreed that the canal may be constructed under the auspices of

canal.

the Government of the United States, either directly at its own cost, or

by gift or loan of money to individuals or Corporations, or through

subscription to or purchase of stock or shares, and that, subject to the

provisions of the present Treaty, the said Government shall have and

enjoy all the rights incident to such construction , as well as the exclusive

right of providing for the regulation and management of the canal .

ARTICLE III.

Rules.

The United States adopts , as the basis of the neutralization of such

ship canal, the following Rules, substantially as embodied in the Con-

Transit of vessels.

vention of Constantinople, signed the 28th October, 1888 , for the free navigation of the Suez Canal, that is to say:
1. The canal shall be free and open to the vessels of commerce and

of war of all nations observing these Rules, on terms of entire equality, No discrimination. so that there shall be no discrimination against any such nation, or its

citizens or subjects, in respect of the conditions or charges of traffic, or

chJaursgtesa. nd equitable otherwise. Such conditions and charges of traffic shall be just and

equitable.

Blockade and hos-

tilities prohibited.

2. The canal shall never be blockaded , nor shall any right of war be

exercised nor any act of hostility be committed within it. The United

Military police. States, however, shall be at liberty to maintain such military police

along the canal as may be necessary to protect it against lawlessness

and disorder.

Restriction of belligerents.

3. Vessels of war of a belligerent shall not revictual nor take any

stores in the canal except so far as may be strictly necessary ; and the

transit of such vessels through the canal shall be effected with the least

possible delay in accordance with the Regulations in force, and with

Prizes.

only such intermission as may result from the necessities of the service. Prizes shall be in all respects subject to the same Rules as vessels of

Disembarkation troops, etc.

war of the belligerents. of
4. No belligerent shall embark or disembark troops, munitions of
war, or warlike materials in the canal, except in case of accidental
hindrance of the transit, and in such case the transit shall be resumed

Adjacent waters.

with all possible dispatch. 5. The provisions of this Article shall apply to waters adjacent to

erTeintmevelsismeilts.of bellig- the canal, within 3 marine miles of either end. Vessels of war of a belligerent shall not remain in such waters longer than twenty -four

hours at any one time, except in case of distress, and in such case,

shall depart as soon as possible ; but a vessel of war of one belligerent

shall not depart within twenty-four hours from the departure of a

vessel of war of the other belligerent.

Immunity of canal, etc.. from attack or 6. The plant, establishments, buildings, and all works necessary to

injury.

the construction, maintenance, and operation of the canal shall be

deemed to be part thereof, for the purposes of this Treaty, and in

time of war, as in time of peace, shall enjoy complete immunity from

attack or injury by belligerents, and from acts calculated to impair

their usefulness as part of the canal.

ARTICLE IV.

Change ofterritorial

sovereignty.

It is agreed that no change of territorial sovereignty or of the inter-

national relations of the country or countries traversed by the before-

mentioned canal shall affect the general principle of neutralization or

the obligation of the High Contracting Parties under the present Treaty.

TREATY, SHIP CANAL- GREAT BRITAIN. NOVEMBER 18, 1901 .

1905

ARTICLE V.

The present Treaty shall be ratified by the President of the United Ratification. States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by His Britannic Majesty ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Term .

Washington or at London at the earliest possible time within six months from the date hereof.

In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed this Treaty and thereunto affixed their seals.

Done in duplicate at Washington , the 18th day of November, in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one.

JOHN HAY

[ SEAL . ]

PAUNCEFOTE. [ SEAL . ]

signatures.

And Whereasthe said Convention has been duly ratified on both parts , and the ratification of the two Governments were exchanged in the city
of Washington on the twenty-first day of February , one thousand nine hundred and two ;

Ratification.

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to

be made public , to the end that the same and every article and clause

thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty-second day of February, in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twentysixth .

[ SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

Proclamation.

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -43

C

1906

TREATY - DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902.

January 6, 1902.

Treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of Denmark for the extradition of fugitives from justice. Signed at Washington, January 6, 1902; ratification advised by the Senate, January 30, 1902; ratified by the President, February 26, 1902 ; ratified by Denmark, March 8, 1902 ; ratifications exchanged at Washington, April 16, 1902; proclaimed, April 17, 1902.

BY THE PREsident of tHE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Treaty between the United States of America and the
Kingdom of Denmark providing for the extradition of criminals was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington on the 6th day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two, the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Danish languages, is word for word as follows:

Contracting parties. The United States of America

and his Majesty the King of Denmark, being desirous to confirm

Plenipotentiaries.

their friendly relations and to promote the cause of justice, have resolved to conclude a treaty for the extradition of fugitives from justice, and have appointed for that purpose the following plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United

States of America , John Hay , Secretary of State of the United States;

and His Majesty the King of Denmark, Mr. Constantin Brun, Commander of the Order of Dan-

nebroge and decorated with the Cross of Honor of the same Order,

His Majesty's Chamberlain and Envoy Extraordinary and Minis-

ter Plenipotentiary at Washington ; who, after having communicated

to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Da de amerikanske Forenede
Stater og Hans Majestt Kongen af Danmark nske at befste de mellem dem bestaaende venskabelige Forhold samt fremme Retfrdighedens Sag, have de besluttet at afslutte en Traktat angaaende Udlevering af bortrmte Forbrydere og i dette jemed udnvnt til deres Befuldmgtigede
Prsidenten i de amerikanske
Forenede Stater, John Hay , de Forenede Staters Statssecretar : og
Hans Majestt Kongen af Danmark, Hr. Constantin Brun , Kommandr af Dannebroge og Dannebrogsmand, Hans Majestts Kammeherre og overordentlige Gesandt og befuldmgtigede Minister i Washington ; hvilke, efter at have meddelt hinanden deres respektive Fuldmagter, der befandtes i god og rigtig Form, ere komne overens om og have vedtaget flgende Artikler :

ARTICLE I.

ARTIKEL I.

Reciprocal delivery The Government of the United owfithpecrrsiomnes charged States and the Government of Den-
mark mutually agree to deliver up

De amerikanske Forenede Staters Regering og den Kgl . Danske Regering ere enige om gensidigt

TREATY - DENMARK . JANUARY 69, 1902.

1907

persons who , having been charged with or convicted of any of the crimes and offenses specified in the following article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the territories of the other : Provided
that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as , according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so
charged shall be found, would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been there committed .

at udlevere Personer, som ere sigtede for eller kendte skyldige i nogen af de i nste Artikel opregnede Forbrydelser og Forseelser , begaaede indenfor den ene af de contraherende Parters Jurisdik-
tion, og som sge Tilflugt eller blive antrufne indenfor den andens.
Territorium , forudsat at der foreligger et saadant Bevis for Skyld, at der, iflge Lovene paa det Sted , hvor den Bortrmte eller Ankla-
gede antrffes , deri vilde indeholdes tilstrkkelig Hjemmel til at paagribe denne og stille ham eller hende for Retten , hvis Forbrydelsen eller Forseelsen var begaaet der.

ARTICLE II.

ARTIKEL II.

Extradition shall be granted for Udlevering skal indrmmes for Extraditablecrimes.

the following crimes and offenses : 1. Murder, comprehending as-
sassination, parricide, infanticide, and poisoning; attempt to commit

flgende Forbrydelser og Forseelser :
1. Mord, deri indbefattet Snigmord, Forldremord, Barnemord

Murder, etc.

murder; the killing of a human og Giftmord ; Forsg paa Mord ;

being, when such act is punishable in the United States as voluntary manslaughter, and in Denmark as manslaughter.
2. Arson. 3. Robbery, defined to be the act

Ombringelse af et menneskeligt Vsen, naar saadan Handling er strafbar i de Forenede Stater som forstligt Drab og i Danmark som Drab.
2. Brandstiftelse. 3. Rveri , bestemt som den

Arson. Robbery, etc.

of feloniously and forcibly taking from the person of another money or goods, by violence or putting him in fear ; burglary, also housebreaking or shopbreaking.
4. Forgery, or the utterance of

Handling, hvorved Nogen i ond Hensigt og med Magt berver en Anden Penge eller Ejendele , det vre sig ved Anvendelse af Vold eller ved at indgyde ham Frygt ; Indbrudstyveri.
4. Dokumentfalsk eller svigag

Forgery.

forged papers ; the forgery or falsification of official acts of government, of public authorities , or of courts of justice, or the utterance of the thing forged or falsified .

tig Brug af falske Dokumenter ; Eftergrelse eller Forfalskning af Regeringens, offentlige Myndigheders eller Domstoles officielle Aktstykker, eller svigagtig Brug af det saaledes Eftergjorte eller Forfalskede .

5. The counterfeiting, falsify- 5. Eftergrelse , Forfalskning Counterfeiting, etc.

ing or altering of money whether coin or paper, or of instruments of debt created by national, state, provincial or municipal govern-

eller Forandring af Penge, det vre sig Mnt eller Papirpenge eller af Gldsforskrivninger udstedte af nationale Stats- Provins-

ments, or of coupons thereof, or of bank- notes , or the utterance or circulation of the same ; or the

eller Kommunal-myndigheder eller af dertil hrende Kupons, eller af Banknoter, eller Udgivelse eller

counterfeiting, falsifying or alter- Stten i Omlb af saadanne ; eller

ing of seals of state.

Eftergrelse , Forfalskning eller

Forandring af Statens Segl. 6. Embezzlement by public of- 6. Tilegnelse af betroet Gods be- Embezzlement, lar

ficers ; embezzlement by persons gaaet af offentlige Embedsmnd ; ceny, etc.

1908

TREATY - DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902.

hired or salaried , to the detriment of their employers ; larceny ; obtaining money, valuable securities or other property by false pretenses, or receiving money, valuable securities, or other property, knowing the same to have been embezzled , stolen or fraudulently obtained, when such act is made criminal by the laws of both countries and the amount of money or the value of the property fraudulently obtained or received is not less than $200. or Kroner 740.

Breach of trust, etc. 7. Fraud, or breach of trust by a bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee or other person acting in a fiduciary capacity , or director or member or officer of any company, when such act is made criminal by the laws of the countries, and the amount of money or the value of
the property misappropriated is not less than $200 . or Kroner 740.

Perjury. Rape, etc.

8. Perjury ; subornation of perjury.
9. Rape; abduction ; kidnapping.

Injuriesto railroads, etc.

10. Malicious destruction of, or

attempt to destroy, railways, trains

or cars, bridges, dwellings, public

edifices, or other buildings, when

the act endangers human life.

Crimes committed

at sea.

11. Crimes committed at sea:

Piracy. Revolt, etc.

(a) Piracy, by statute or by the law of nations.
(b) Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons on board a ship on the high seas against the authority of the master.

Destroying vessels,

etc.

(c) Wrongfully sinking or de-

stroying a vessel at sea, or attempting to do So.

Assaults on shipboard.

(d) Assault on board a ship on

the high seas with intent to do

grievous bodily harm.

Slave trading, etc. 12. Crimes and offenses against the laws of both countries for the supression of slavery and slavetrading.

Tilegnelse af betroet Gods begaaet af lejede eller lnnede Personer til Skade for dem, i hvis Tjeneste de staa ; Tyveri ; Tilvendelse ved falske Foregivender af Penge, Vrdipapirer eller andre Ejendele, eller Modtagelse af Penge, Vrdipapirer eller andre Ejendele med Vidende om , at det Modtagne er erholdt ved Tyveri, Tilegnelse af betroet Gods eller andet bedragerisk Forhold, forsaavidt Handlingen er strafbar efter begge Landes Love og Pengebelbet eller Vrdien af de svigagtigt tilvendte eller modtagne Ejendele ikke er under $ 200 eller Kroner 740.
7. Svigagtige Handlinger eller Brud paa Tillid, der begaaes af en Depositarius, Bankier, Agent, Factor, Vrge, Kurator eller anden Person, der handler som Fiduciarius, eller af en Bestyrer, et Medlem eller en Embedsmand i et Selskab, forsaavidt Handlin-
gen er strafbar efter begge Landes Love, og Pengebelbet eller Vrdien af de uretmssigt tilvendte Ejendele ikke er under $200 . eller Kroner 740.
8. Mened ; Forledelse til Mened.
9. Voldtgt; Bortfrelse ; Barnerov .
10. Forstlig delggelse eller Forsg paa delggelse af Skinneveje, Sporvogne eller Waggoner, Broer, Vaaninger, offentlige Bygninger eller andre Bygninger, naar Handlingen medfrer Fare for Menneskeliv .
11. Forbrydelser begaaede til Ss ;
a) Srveri, efter Loven eller Folkeretten ;
b) Mytteri ombord paa et Skib i rum S mod Skibsfrerens Myn-
dighed, eller derpaa rettet Sammenrottelse af to eller flere Personer:
c) Uretmssig Snkning eller Tilintetgrelse af et Skib i Sen eller herpaa rettet Forsg ;
d) Vold sgerninger ombord paa et Skib i rum S udvede i den Hensigt at tilfje en strre Legemsbeskadigelse .
12. Forbrydelser og Forseelser mon begge Landes Love betrffende Undertrykkelse af Slaveri og Slavehandel.

TREATY- DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902.

1909

13. Procuring abortion. Extradition is also to take place
for participation in any of the crimes and offenses mentioned in
this Treaty, provided such participation may be punished , in the United States as a felony, and in Denmark by imprisonment at hard labor.

13. Fosterfordrivelse. Udlevering skal ligeledes finde Sted for Meddelagtighed i nogen af de i denne Traktat nvnte For-
brydelser og Forseelser , forudsat at saadan Meddelagtighed i de Forenede Stater straffes som " felony " og i Danmark kan medfre Straf af Strafarbejde.

Procuring abortion. Complicity .

ARTICLE III.

ARTIKEL III.

Requisitions for the surrender of fugitives from justice shall be made by the diplomatic agents of the contracting parties, or in the absence of these from the country or its seat of government, may be made by the superior consular officers .
If the person whose extradition is requested shall have been convicted of a crime or offense , a duly authenticated copy of the sentence of the court in which he was convicted, or if the fugitive is merely charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest in the country where the crime has been committed, and of the depositions or other evidence upon which such warrant was issued , shall be produced .
The extradition of fugitives under the provisions of this Treaty shall be carried out in the United States and in Denmark respectively, in conformity with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force in the state on which the demand for surrender is made.

Udleveringsbegringen skal fremsttes af de contraherende Parters diplomatiske Agenter, men kan, hvis saadanne ikke findes i

Requisitions.

Landet eller paa det Sted, hvor

Regeringen har sit Sde, ogsaa

fremsttes af de overordnede Konsulats - Embedsmnd .

Hvis den

Person ,

hvis

Udleve-

Copy of sentence warrant.

or

ring begres, er bleven dmt for

en Forbrydelse eller Forseelse,

skal der fremlgges en tilbrligt bekrftet Genpart af den Dom,

ved hvilken han er kendt skyldig,

eller, dersom den Bortrmte kun

er sigtet for en Forbrydelse , en

tilbrlig bekrftet Genpart af den

Fngslingskendelse, der er udstedt i det Land, hvor Forbrydelsen er

begaaet, samt af de retslige For-

klaringer eller andre Bevisligheder, i Henhold til hvilke saadan Kendelse er udstedt.
Udlevering af bortrmte For-

Proceedings.

brydere i Henhold til denne Traktats Bestemmelser skal foregaa

henholdsvis i de Forenede Stater, og Danmark, overensstemmende

med de Love angaaende Udlevering, som paa den Tid ere gldende i den Stat, hos hvilken Udle-

veringen begres.

ARTICLE IV .

ARTIKEL IV.

When the arrest and detention
of a fugitive in the United States are desired on telegraphic or other information in advance of the presentation of formal proofs, complaint on oath, as provided by the statutes of the United States, shall be made by an agent of the Danish Government before a judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in extradition cases.

Applications for Naar en bortrmt Forbryders provisional arrest.
Paagribelse og Fngsling begres In the United States. i de Forenede Stater ad telegrafisk Vej eller gennem anden Meddelelse , forinden de formelige Beviser fremlgges, skal en beediget Klage, saaledes som fastsat i de Forenede Staters Lovgivning , afgives af en Reprsentant for den danske Regering for en Dommer eller anden vringhedsperson, der er bemyndiget til at udfrdige Arrestordrer i Udleveringstilflde .

1910

TREATY - DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902 .

In Denmark.

In the Kingdom of Denmark

the diplomatic or consular officer

of the United States shall apply to

the Foreign Office, which will im-

mediately cause the necessary steps

to be taken in order to secure the

provisional arrest and detention of

the fugitive. Discharge on failure The provisional detention of a to make formal requisition within two fugitive shall cease and the prismonths.
oner be released, if a formal req-

uisition for his surrender, accom-

panied by the necessary evidence

of his criminality, has not been

produced under the stipulations

of this Convention , within two

months from the date of his provisional arrest or detention.

I Kongeriget Danmark skal de Forenede Staters diplomatiske eller konsulre Embedsmand henvende sig til Udenrigsministeriet, derufortvet vil foranledige at der foretages de ndvendige Skridt for at sikkre den Bortrmtes forelbige Paagribelse og Fngsling.
Den forelbige Fngsling af en undvegen Forbryder skal ophre og den Fngslede lslades , dersom der ikke inden to Maaneder fra Dagen for hans forelbige Paagribelse eller Fngsling overensstemmende med denne Traktats Bestemmelser er tilvejebragt en formelig Begring om hans Udlevering, ledsaget af det ndvendige Bevis for hans Skyld.

ARTICLE V.

ARTIKEL V.

Neither country

bound to deliver its Neither ofthe contracting parties

own citizens.

shall be bound to deliver up its own

citizens, born or naturalized , under

the stipulations of this Convention.

Ingen afde contraherende Parter skal vre forpligtet til i Henhold til denne Traktats Bestemmelser at
udlevere sine egne Borgere , indfdte eller naturaliserede.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTIKEL VI.

No surrender political offenses.

for A fugitive criminal shall not be
surrendered if the offense in respect
of which his surrender is demanded be of a political character, or if he

proves that the requisition for his surrender has, in fact, been made

with a viewto try or punish himfor an offense of a political character.

Political offenses No person surrendered by either prior to extradition.
of the high contracting parties to the other shall be triable or tried,
or be punished for any political crime or offense , or for any act connected therewith, committed previously to his extradition .

Attempt on life of An attempt against the life of rulers, etc., not consfiednesree.d a political of the head of either Government, or
against that of any member of his
family, when such attempt comprises the act either of murder or
assassination , or of poisoning, shall not be considered a political offense or an act connected with such offense .

Decision.

If any question shall arise as to whether a case comes within the provisions of this Article, the decision of the authorities of the gov-

En bortrmt Forbryder skalikke udleveres, dersom den Overtrdelse, for hvis Skyld hans Udlevering er begrt, er af politisk Art, eller hvis han godtgr at Begringen om hans Udlevering i Virkeligheden er fremsat i den Hensigt at tiltale eller straffe ham for en Overtrdelse af politisk Art .
Ingen, der er udleveret af den ene af de hje contraherende Parter til den anden, skal kunne tiltales, dmmes eller straffes for en politisk Forbrydelse eller Overtrdelse eller for en med en saadan forbunden Handling, naar denne er begaaet fr hans Udlevering.
Et Anslag mod en af de to Regeringers Overhoveds Liv eller mod et af hans Families Medlem-
mers Liv skal, naar dette Anslag indbefatter enten Mord eller Snigmord eller Forgivelse, ikke betragtes som en politisk Overtrdelse eller som en med en saaden forbunden Handling.
Hvis der opstaar Sprgsmaal om, hvorvidt en Sag hrer ind under Bestemmelserne i denne Artikel, skal den Afgrelse vre endelig, der trffes af den Regerings

TREATY- DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902.

1911

ernment on which the demand for
surrender is made, or which may have granted the extradition , shall be final.

Myndigheder, for hvilken Udleveringsbegringen er fremsat eller som maatte have indrmmet Udleveringen.

ARTICLE VII .

ARTIKEL VII.

Extradition shall not be granted, in pursuance of the provisions of this Convention , if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the penalty for the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by limitation, according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed.

Udlevering skal ikke indrmmes

No delivery if trial barred by limitations.

i Medfr af denne Traktats Be-

stemmelser, saafremt der med

Hensyn til Paatale af eller Straf

for den Handling, der er begaaet

af den reklamerede Person, er indtraadt Forldelse overensstem-

mende med Lovene i det Land, til hvilket Begringen er rettet.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTIKEL VIII.

No person surrendered by either
of the high contracting parties to the other shall without his consent, freely granted and publicly declared by him, be triable or tried, or be punished for any crime or offense committed prior to his extradition, other than that for which he was delivered up, until he shall have had an opportunity of returning to the country from which he was surrendered.

Ingen ,

der

er

udleveret

af

den

Trials to be only for offenses for which ex-

ene af de hoje contraherende Parter tradited.

til den anden , maa uden hans eget

frivillige og offentlig afgivne Sam-

tykke tiltales , dmmes eller straf-

fes for nogen anden Forbrydelse

eller Forseelse, der er begaaet fr

hans Udlevering, end den, for

hvilken han er bleven udleveret,

forinden han har haft Lejlighed

til at vende tilbage til det Land, fra hvilket han blev udleveret.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTIKEL IX.

All articles seized which are in the possession of the person to be surrendered at the time of his apprehension, whether being the proceeds of the crime or offense charged, or being material as evidence in making proof of the crime or offense shall, so far as practicable and in conformity with the laws of the respective countries, be given up when the extradition takes place. Nevertheless , the rights of third parties with regard to such articles shall be duly respected .
ARTICLE X.

Alle i Forvaring tagne Gen- clDeisspsoesiizetdiowniotfh apretirstande, som vare i den Persons Be- son. siddelse, som skal udleveres, paa den Tid, da han blev paagreben, hvad enten de ere Udbytte af den Forbrydelse eller Forseelse, hvorfor han er anklaget, eller de ere af Betydning som Bevismateriale for dens Forvelse , skulle saa vidt grligt og i Overensstemmelse med de respektive Landes Love udleveres samtidigt med den Paagaldende. Dog skulle Trediemands Rettigheder med Hensyn til saadanne Genstande tilbrligt respekteres .
ARTIKEL X.

If the individual claimed by one
of the high contracting parties , in pursuance of the present Treaty, shall also be claimed by one or several other powers on account of crimes or offenses committed within their respective jurisdictions , his extradition shall be granted to the State whose demand

Hvis den Person , der er begret twPoeorrsomnosreclcaoiunmterdiebsy. udleveret af en af de hje contraherende Parter i Henhold til nr-
vrende Traktat, ligeledes begres udleveret af en eller flere andre Magter paa Grund af Forbrydelser eller Forseelser begaaede i deres respektive Jurisdiktioner , skal hans Udlevering indrmmes den

1912

TREATY- DENMARK. JANUARY 6, 1902.

is first received : Provided, that the Government from which extradition is sought is not bound by treaty to give preference otherwise.

Stat, hvis Begring er modtaget frst, forudsat at ikke den Regering, hos hvilken Udlevering er forlangt, ved Traktat er forplig tet til paa anden Maade at give Nogen Fortrinet.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTIKEL XI.

Expenses.

The expenses incurred in the arrest, detention , examination and
delivery of fugitives under this Treaty shall be borne by the State in whose name the extradition is
sought ; Provided, that the demanding government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such public officers of the government from which extradition is sought as receive a fixed salary ; and Provided that
the charge for the services of such public officers as receive only fees or perquisites shall not exceed their customary fees for the acts or services performed by them had such acts or services been performed in ordinary criminal proceedings under the laws of the country of which they are officers.

De Udgifter, der ere foraarsagede ved bortrmte Forbryderes Paagribelse, Arrest, Afhring og Udlevering i Henhold til denne Traktat, skulle bres af den Stat, i hvis Navn Udleveringen er begret; dog skal den reklamerende Regering ikke tvinges til at yde nogen Betaling for Tjenester ydede af saadanne offentlige Embedsmnd under den Regering, hos hvilken Udlevering begres , som oppebre fast Lnning; heller ikke skal Betalingen for Tjenester ydede af saadanne offentlige Embedsmnd, der alene oppebre Gebyrer eller Sportler, overstige deres sdvanlige Godtgrelse for de af dem udfrte Tjenestehandlinger, saafremt disse havde vret udfrte under en almindelig kriminel Retsforflgning efter Lovene i det Land, hvis Embedsmnd de ere .

ARTICLE XII.

ARTIKEL XII.

Effect.

The present Treaty shall take

effect on the thirtieth day after

the date of the exchange of rati-

fications , and shall not operate

retroactively .

Exchange of ratifications.

The ratifications of the present

Treaty shall be exchanged at Wash-

ington as soon as possible and it

shall remain in force for a period of six months after either of the

contracting governments shall

have given notice of a purpose to terminate it.

Nrvrende Traktat skal trde i Kraft paa den 30' Dag efter Ratifikationernes Udvexling og skal ikke have tilbagevirkende Kraft.
Ratifikationerne vedkommende nrvrende Traktat skulle udvexles i Washington saa snart som muligt, og den skal forblive i Kraft i et Tidsrum af 6 Maaneder efter at en af de contraherende. Regeringer har tilkendegivet sin Hensigt at ophve samme.

Signatures.

In witness whereof, the respec- Til Bekrftelse heraf have de

tive plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the English and the Danish languages and have hereunto affixed their seals.
Done in duplicate, at the City

respektive Befuldmgtigede undertegnet foranstaaende Artikler baade i det engelske og i det danske Sprog samt herunder sat deres Segl.
Givet i dobbelt Udfrdigelse

of Washington, this sixth day of January nineteen hundred and two .

i Staden Washington den sjette Dag af Januar Nitten Hundrede og to.

JOHN HAY. [ SEAL.] C. BRUN . [SEAL

TREATY - DENMARK. JANUARY 6 , 1902.

1913

And whereas the said Treaty has been duly ratified on both parts , and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the
City of Washington , on the 16th day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two ;

Now therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President

of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

[SEAL . ]

Done at the City of Washington , this seventeenth day of April in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hun-
dred and two, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- sixth.

By the President : JOHN HAY,

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

1914

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 13, 1902 .

January 13, 1902.

Supplementary Convention between the United States and Great Britain,
extending for a period of twelve months from July 28, 1901, the time within which British Colonies or Foreign Possessions may give
their adhesion to the Convention for the tenure and disposition of real and personal property, signed at Washington on March 2 , 1899. Signed at Washington, January 13, 1902; ratification advised by the Senate, February 17, 1902; ratified by the President, March 7, 1902; ratified by Great Britain, March 11, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Washington, April 2, 1902; proclaimed, April 2, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 31, p. 1939.

Whereas a Supplementary Convention between the United States of America and Great Britain extending for a period of twelve months from July 28 , 1901 , the time within which British Colonies or Foreign Possessions may give their adhesion to the Convention relative to the disposal of real and personal property , signed at Washington on the 2nd day of March, 1899, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington on the 13th day of January, one thousand nine hundred and two, the original of which Supplementary Convention, is word for word as follows:

Contracting parties. The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British

Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, finding it expedient to prolong for a period of twelve months the time fixed by Article IV

of the Convention relative to the disposal of real and personal prop-

erty, signed at Washington on the 2nd day of March, 1899, for the

notification of their accession to that Convention by His Britannic

Majesty's Colonies or Foreign Possessions, have agreed to conclude

an additional Convention for that purpose, and have named as their

Plenipotentiaries :

Plenipotentiaries.

The President of the United States of America , the Honorable John

Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of America; and His

Majesty the King of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, the Right Honorable

Lord Pauncefote, of Preston, G. C. B. , G. C. M. G. , His Majesty's

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States; who , having communicated to each other their Full Powers, which

were found to be in due and proper form , have agreed upon the following sole Article:

SOLE ARTICLE.

Time for notice of adhesion of British

It is agreed that the time fixed in Article IV of the said Convention,

colonies to tenure of within which the accessions thereto of His Britannic Majesty's Colo-

ptreonpdeerdtyonetryeeaatry., ex- nies or Foreign Possessions shall be notified, shall be prolonged for a

Vol. 31, p. 1940.

period of twelve months from July 28th 1901.

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 13, 1902.

1915

In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed this Convention and hereunto affixed their seals.

Done in duplicate at Washington, the 13th day of January, in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two.

JOHN HAY

[SEAL . ]

PAUNCEFOTE. [SEAL . ]

Signatures.

And whereas the said Supplementary Convention has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the second day of April, one thousand nine hundred and two;
Now therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Supplementary Convention to be made public , to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this second day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two,
[SEAL ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

[ NOTE BY THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE. ]

The following British colonies and possessions have acceded to the Convention between the United States and Great Britain of March 2, 1899, relating to the tenure and disposition of real and personal property:

Cape, Fiji, Jamaica, Bahamas, Trinidad, Barbados, Newfoundland, New Zealand, Leeward Islands, Northern Nigeria, South Nigeria.

St. Vincent, St. Lucia, Falkland Islands, St. Helena, Sierra Leone,
Gambia, Labuan, Mauritius, Gold Coast Colony, South Rhodesia,
Australia,

Cyprus, Ceylon, Hongkong, Straits Settlements,
British Honduras, Grenada, North Borneo, British Guiana,
Bermuda ,
Lagos, British New Guinea.

1916

PROTOCOL- MEXICO . PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902.

May 22, 1902.

Protocol of an agreement between the United States and the Republic of Mexico for the adjustment of certain contentions arising under what is known as " The Pious Fund of the Californias.' Signed at Washington May 22, 1902.

ROTOCOL OF AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF MEXICO FOR THE ADJUSTMENT OF CERTAIN CONTENTIONS ARISING UNDER WHAT IS KNOWN AS " THE PIOUS FUND OF THE CALIFORNIAS."

PROTOCOLO DE COMPROMISO ENTRE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMRICA Y LA REPBLICA DE MXICO PARA LA DECISIN DE CIERTAS CUESTIONES SUSCITADAS CON RESPECTO AL LLAMADO "FONDO PIADOSO DE LAS CALIFORNIAS."

Preamble.

The Pious fund of Whereas, under and by virtue

the Californias. Vol. 15, p. 679.

of the provisions of a convention

entered into between the High

Contracting Parties above named , of date July 4, 1868, and subse-

quent conventions supplementary thereto, there was submitted to

the Mixed Commission provided for by said Convention , a certain claim advanced by and on behalf of the prelates of the Roman Catholic Church of California

against the Republic of Mexico for an annual interest upon a certain fund known as " The Pious

Fund of the Californias, " which

Vol. 9, p. 922.

interest was said to have accrued between February 2, 1848 , the

date of the signature of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and Febru-

ary 1 , 1869, the date of the exchange of the ratifications of said

Convention above referred to ; and Whereas, said Mixed Commis-

sion, after considering said claim,

the same being designated as No. 493 upon its docket, and entitled Thaddeus Amat, Roman Catholic

Bishop of Montery, a corporation

sole, and Joseph S. Alemany, Roman Catholic Bishop of San Francisco, a corporation sole, against The Republic of Mexico, adjudged the same adversely to the Republic of Mexico and in favor of said claimants, and made an award thereon of Nine Hundred and

Por cuanto, en virtud de las dis-
posiciones de una Convencin ajustada entre las Altas Partes Contratantes arriba mencionadas, con fecha 4 de Julio de 1868 , y siguientes convenciones suplementarias de ella , fu sometida  la Comisin Mixta establecida por dicha Convencin una reclamacin presentada por parte y en favor de los prelados de la Iglesia Catlica Romana de California contra la
Repblica de Mxico, por rditos anuales de cierto fondo llamado el " Fondo Piadoso de las Californias , " los cuales rditos se consideraron devengados desde el 2 de Febrero de 1848, fecha de la firma del tratado de Guadalupe Hidalgo , hasta el 1  de Febrero de 1869, fecha del canje de las ratificaciones de la Convencin arriba referida ; y
Por cuanto la indicada Comisin
Mixta, despus de examinar dicha reclamacin, que fu sealada en el libro de registro con el nmero 493 e intitulada " Thaddeus Amat Obispo Catlico Romano de Monterrey, por la corporacin unitaria que representa, y Joseph S. Alemany Obispo Catlico Romano de San Francisco, por la corporacin unitaria que representa, contra la Republica de Mxico " decidi la reclamacin contra la Repblica de Mxico, y en favor de dichos

PROTOCOL- MEXICO . PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902 .

1917

Four Thousand, Seven Hundred and 99 100 (904,700.99) Dollars ; the same, as expressed in the findings of said Court, being for twenty-one years' interest of the annual amount of Forty-three Thousand and Eighty and 99 100 (43,080.99) Dollars upon Seven Hundred and Eighteen Thousand and Sixteen and 50 100 (718,016.50) Dollars, said award being in Mexican gold dollars, and the said amount of Nine Hundred and Four Thousand, Seven Hundred and 99 100 (904.700.99) Dollars having been fully paid and discharged in accordance with the terms of said convention ; and
Whereas, the United States of America on behalf of said Roman Catholic Bishops, above named , and their successors in title and interest, have since such award claimed from Mexico further instalments of said interest, and have insisted that the said claim was conclusively established, and its

reclamantes, dando un laudo por novecientos cuatro mil setecientos pesos noventa y nueve centavos ($904,700.99) ; los cuales, como se expresa en la exposicin de dicho tribunal, fueron el importe de rditos vencidos en veintin aos a razn de cuarenta y tres mil ochenta pesos noventa y nueve centavos ($43,080.99) anuales sobre la suma de setecientos diez y ocho mil diez y seis pesos cincuenta centavos ($718,016.50) y haban de pagarse en oro mexicano ; y dicha suma de novecientos cuatro mil setecientos pesos noventa y nueve centavos ($904,700.99) fu completamente pagada y finiquitada en conformidad con los trminos de dicha Convencin ; y
Por cuanto los Estados Unidos
de Amrica por los Obispos Catlicos Romanos arriba nombrados y sus sucesores con el mismo ttulo e inters han reclamado  Mxico despus de dicho laudo los sucesivos vencimientos de dichos rditos y han insistido en que la expresada reclamacin fu definitivamente

amount fixed as against Mexico and in favor of said original claimants and their successors in title and interest under the said first

juzgada y su monto fijado en contra de Mxico y a favor de los primitivos reclamantes y de sus sucesores con el mismo ttulo e

mentioned convention of 1868 by force of the said award as res judicata; and have further contended that apart from such former award their claim against Mexico was just, both of which propositions are controverted and denied bythe Republic of Mexico , and the High Contracting Parties hereto, animated by a strong desire that the dispute so arising may be amicably, satisfactorily and justly settled, have agreed to submit said controversy to the determination of Arbitrators, who shall, unless

inters, conforme  la primera Convencin mencionada de 1868 , en virtud de dicho laudo como res
judicata; y han sostenido adems que independientemente de tal laudo su reclamacin contra Mxico era justa ; aserciones ambas que han sido controvertidas e impugnadas por la Repblica de Mxico , y las Atlas Partes signatarias de este Compromiso , animadas de un vivo deseo de que la controversia as suscitada sea amigable , satisfactoria y justamente resuelta , han convenido en someter dicha con-

otherwise herein expressed, be controlled by the provisions of the International Convention for the pacific settlement of international disputes, commonly known as The Hague Convention , and which arbitration shall have power to de: termine :
1. If said claim , as a consequence of the former decision , is within

troversia  la decisin de rbitros , quienes se ajustarn en todo lo que no se disponga de otro modo por el presente instrumento ,  las prevenciones de la Convencin international para el arreglo pacfico de controversias internacionales comunmente denominada " Convencin de La Haya" y estarn facultados para resolver:
1 Si dicha reclamacin como consecuencia del laudo anterior

Scope ofarbitration.

1918

PROTOCOL-MEXICO. PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902.

the governing principle of res judicata ; and ,
2. If not, whether the same be just .
And to render such judgment or

est regida por el principio de res judicata; y
2 De no estarlo, si es justa la misma reclamacin.
Y para pronunciar un fallo 

award as may be meet and proper under all the circumstances of the
case . Contracting parties.
It is therefore agreed by and between the United States of

laudo tal que sea adecuado y conveniente  todas las circunstancias del caso:
Por tanto, se conviene entre los Estados Unidos de Amrica, repre-

America, through their representative, John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of

sentados por John Hay , Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de Amrica, y la Repblica de M-

America, and the Republic of Mexico, through its representative, Manuel de Azpiroz , Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-

xico, representada por Manuel de Azpiroz, Embajador Extraordina rio y Plenipotenciario de la Repblica de Mxico en los Estados Uni-

potentiary to the United States of dos de Amrica, en lo siguiente :

America for the Republic of Mexico as follows :

I.

I.

Contentions referred That the said contentions be reto special tribunal.
ferred to the special tribunal here-
inafter provided , for examination, determination and award.

Las referidas cuestiones sern sometidas al tribunal especial que en seguida se autoriza para examinarlas, determinarlas y fallarlas.

II.

II.

Composition. Umpire.

The special tribunal hereby constituted shall consist of four arbitrators, (two to be named by each of the High Contracting Parties) and an umpire to be selected in accordance with the provisions of the Hague Convention . The arbitrators to be named hereunder shall be signified by each of the
High Contracting Parties to the other within sixty days after the date of this protocol . None of those so named shall be a native

Judgment. Vacancies.

or citizen of the parties hereto . Judgment may be rendered by a majority of said court.
All vacancies occurring among the members of said court because of death, retirement or disability from any cause before a decision shall be reached, shall be filled in accordance with the method of appointment of the member affected as provided by said Hague Convention, and if occurring after said court shall have first assem-

bled, will authorize in the judg Extension of time. ment of the court an extension of

time for hearing or judgment, as the case may be, not exceeding thirty days.

El tribunal especial constituido por este instrumento se compondr de cuatro rbitros , debiendo ser dos nombrados por cada una de las altas partes contratantes, y un rbitro superior que ser elegido con arreglo  las disposiciones de la Convencin de La Haya. Los rbitros nombrados, como se ha dicho , por cada una de las Altas Partes Contratantes sern dados  conocer por la parte que los nombr a la otra parte dentro de sesenta das que corrern desde la fecha de este protocolo . Ninguno de los rbitros nombrados como se ha dicho ser oriundo  ciudadano de las partes contratantes. El laudo podr ser pronunciado por mayora de votos de dicho tribunal. Todas
las vacantes que ocurran entre los miembros de dicho tribunal por causa de muerte, separacin  inhabilidad que provenga de causa anterior al pronunciamiento del laudo sern cubiertas del mismo
modo que fu nombrado el miembro cesante, como se dispone en la Convencin de La Haya, y si ocurrieren despus que dicho tribunal se haya instalado podrn justifi-

PROTOCOL- MEXICO. PIOUS FUND. MAY 22 , 1902.

1919

car,  juicio del tribunal , una prrroga del trmino sealado para la audiencia  resolucin , segn sea
el caso, con tal que ella no pase de treinta das .

III.

III.

All pleadings, testimony, proofs , arguments of counsel and findings or awards of commissioners or umpire , filed before or arrived at by the Mixed Commission above referred to, are to be placed in evidence before the Court hereinbefore provided for, together with all correspondence between the two countries relating to the subject matter involved in this arbitration ; originals or copies thereof duly certified by the Departments of State of the High Contracting Parties being presented to said new tribunal. Where printed books are referred to in evidence by either party, the party offering the same shall specify volume, edition and page of the portion desired to be read, and shall furnish the Court in print the extracts relied upon; their accuracy beingattested by affidavit. If the original work is not already on file as a portion of the record of the former Mixed Commission, the book itself shall be placed at the disposal of the opposite party in the respective offices of the Secretary of State or of the Mexican Ambassador in Washington, as the case may be, thirty days before the meeting of the tribunal herein provided for.

Todas las alegaciones , testimonios, pruebas, informes en derecho y conclusiones  laudos de los

Arguments, etc.

Comisionados  del tercero en discordia, presentados ante laComisin

Mixta arriba referida  acordados

por ella, son de aducirse como pruebas ante el tribunal que ahora se nombra, juntamente con toda la correspondencia habida entre los

dos pases concerniente a los puntos comprendidos en este arbitramento ; exhibindose al nuevo tri-

bunal dichos documentos originales  copias de ellos debidamente

certificados por los Departamentos de Estado respectivos de las Altas Partes Contratantes. Cuando cualquiera de las dos partes cite libros impresos por va de prueba , la que ofrezca tal prueba especificar el volumen , edicin y pgina de la parte que quiera se lea, y propor cionar al tribunal impresos los pasajes que deseare hacer valer,

cuya exactitud ser comprobada con testimonio legal : y si la obra

original no est ya formando parte del archivo de la primera Comisin Mixta , el libro mismo ser

puesto a disposicin de la parte

contraria, en los despachos respectivos del Secretario de Estado 

del Embajador de Mxico en Washington, segn sea el caso, treinta das antes de la reunin del

tribunal que aqu se nombra.

IV.

IV .

Either party may demand from

Cada

parte podr pedir

a

la

otra

Documentary dence.

evi-

the other the discovery of any fact que d a conocer cualquier hecho or of any document deemed to be o documento considerado como

or to contain material evidence for prueba o que contenga materia de

the party asking it ; the document prueba interesante  la parte que desired to be described with suffi- la solicita ; debiendo ser descrito

cient accuracy for identification, el documento deseado con sufi-

and the demanded discovery shall ciente exactitud para su identifica-

be made by delivering a statement cin; y se dar la noticia o se har

of the fact or by depositing a copy la exhibicin pedida , mediante una of such document (certified by its relacin del hecho , o el depsito

lawful custodian , if it be a public de una copia de dicho documento

1920

PROTOCOL - MEXICO. PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902 .

Notice. Oral testimony.

document, and verified as such by the possessor, if a private one), and the opposite party shall be given the opportunity to examine the original in the City of Washington at the Department of State, or at the office of the Mexican Ambassador, as the case may be. If notice of the desired discovery be given too late to be answered ten days before the tribunal herein provided for shall sit for hearing, then the answer desired thereto shall be filed with or documents produced before the court herein provided for as speedily as possible.
V.

(certificada por quien lo tenga legalmente en guarda si es un documento pblico, y autorizada por su poseedor si el documento fuere privado) y a la parte contraria se deber dar la oportunidad de examinar el original en la ciudad de Washington en el Departamento de Estado  en el despacho del Embajador de Mxico segn fuere el caso. Si la noticia  exhibicin deseada se obtuviere demasiado tarde para que pueda ser contestada diez das antes que el tribunal aqu establecido abra la audencia, en tal caso la contestacin que se d al pedimento, o el documento que se produzca, se presentar al tribunal aqu establecido, tan pronto como fuere posible.
V.

Any oral testimony additional
to that in the record of the former arbitration may be taken by either party before any Judge, or Clerk of Court of Record, or any Notary Public , in the manner and with the precautions and conditions prescribed for that purpose in the rules of the Joint Commission of the United States of America and the Republic of Mexico, as ordered and adopted by that tribunal August 10, 1869 , and so far as the same may be applicable . The testimony when reduced to writing, signed by the witness, and authenticated by the officer before whom the same is taken , shall be sealed
up, addressed to the court constituted hereby, and deposited so sealed up in the Department of State of the United States, or in the Department of Foreign Relations of Mexico to be delivered to the Court herein provided for when the same shall convene.

Todo testimonio oral que no
conste en el archivo del primer arbitramento podr rendirse por cualquiera de las partes ante algn juez o secretario de juzgado de letras o notario pblico, de la manera, con las precauciones y bajo las condiciones prescritas para tal caso en las reglas de la Comisin Mixta de Mxico y los Estados
Unidos de Amrica, y adoptadas por dicho tribunal el 10 de Agosto de 1869, en todo lo que sean aplicables. Cuando el testimonio se extienda por escrito, firmado que sea por el testigo y legalizado por el funcionario ante quien se haya rendido, deber ser sellado , diri-
gido al tribunal que aqu se establece , y as sellado se entregar en
depsito en el Despacho de Relaciones exteriores de Mxico  en
el Departamento de Estado de los Estados Unidos a fin de que sea remitido al tribunal que aqu se establece cuando el mismo se rena.

VI.

VI.

Submission of memorial.

Within sixty days from the date

hereof the United States of Amer-

ica, through their agent or coun-

sel, shall prepare and furnish to

the Department of State aforesaid,

a memorial in print of the origin

and amount of their claim , accom-

Dentro de sesenta das desde la fecha de este instrumento la parte de los Estados Unidos de Amrica,
por medio de su agente  abogado, deber preparar y entregar al Departamento de Estado arriba dicho un memorial impreso del

PROTOCOL- MEXICO. PIOUS FUND. MAY 22 , 1902 .

1921

panied by references to printed books, and to such portions of the proofs or parts of the record of the former arbitration , as they rely on in support of their claim , delivering copies of the same to the Embassy of the Republic of Mexico in Washington, for the use of the agent or counsel of Mexico .

origen y monto de la reclamacin, acompaado de las citas de libros impresos y de aquellas partes de las pruebas o piezas del archivo del primer arbitramento, en que quiera fundar su reclamacin, dando copias de los mismos documentos a la Embajada de la Repblica Mexicana en Washington para uso del agente  abogado de Mxico .

VII .

VII .

Within forty days after the delivery thereof to the Mexican Em-
bassy the agent or counsel for the Republic of Mexico shall deliver to the Department of State of the United States of America in the
same manner and with like references a statement of its allegations and grounds of opposition to said claim .

Dentro de cuarenta das despus swTeirm. e limit to ande la entrega del memorial  la Embajada Mexicana, el agente  abogado de la Repblica de Mxico entregar al Departamento de Estado de los Estados Unidos de
Amrica, de la misma manera y con iguales referencias, un memorial de sus alegaciones y razones de oposicin  la reclamacin dicha.

VIII.

VIII.

The provisions of paragraphs VI and VII shall not operate to prevent the agents or counsel for the parties hereto from relying at the hearing or submission upon any documentary or other evidence which may have become open to their investigation and examination at a period subsequent to the times provided for service of memorial and answer.

Las prevenciones de los prrafos Evidence secured subsequent to service
VI y VII no impedirn  los sofwemre.morial and anagentes  abogados de las partes contratantes reforzar oralmente  por escrito sus argumentos citando cualesquiera documentos probatorios  otras pruebas que consideren tiles y les haya sido dado conocer y examinar en un perodo subsiguiente  los trminos sealados para el traslado del memorial y la contestacin.

IX.

IX.

The first meeting of the arbitral court hereinbefore provided for shall take place for the selection of an umpire on September 1 , 1902 , at The Hague in the quarters which may be provided for such purpose bythe International Bureau at The
Hague, constituted by virtue ofThe Hague convention hereinbefore referred to , and for the commencement of its hearings September 15 , 1902, is designated, or, if an umpire may not be selected by said date, then as soon as possible thereafter, and not later than October 15, 1902, at which time and place and at such other times as the court may set (and at Brussels if
VOL XXXII , PT 2- 44

La

primera

reunin

del

tribunal

Meeting of arbitral court,The Hague, Sep-

arbitral arriba nombrado se veri- teSmebleerct1i,o1n9o0f2.umpire. ficar con objeto de elejir un r-

bitro superior el 1 de Septiembre

de 1902 en la Haya en el local que al efecto destine la Oficina Internacional de la Haya constituida en

virtud de la convencin de la Haya ,
antes referida y para dar principio
 las audiencias del tribunal se deCommencement of
signa el 15 de Septiembre de 1902, hearings.
 si en esa fecha no estuviere ya

electo el rbitro superior , las audiencias comenzarn tan pronto

como sea posible y no despus del 15 de Octubre de 1902 , en cuyo

tiempo y lugar  en otras fechas

que el tribunal disponga (y en

1922

PROTOCOL- MEXICO . PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902.

the court should determine not to sit at The Hague) explanations and arguments shall be heard or presented asthe court may determine, and the cause be submitted . The submission of all arguments, statements of facts, and documents shall be concluded within thirty days after the time provided for the meeting of the court for hearing (unless the court shall order an extension of not to exceed thirty days) and its decision and award announced within thirty days after such conclusion, and certified copies thereof delivered to the agents or counsel of the respective parties and forwarded to the Secretary of State of the United States and the Mexican Ambassador at Washington , as well as filed with the Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Bruselas , si el tribunal determinare no tener sus sesiones en la
Haya) explicaciones y alegatos, que se presenten segn lo determine el tribunal, y el caso le quedar sometido. Esta sumisin
con todos los alegatos , relacin de hechos y presentacin de documentos estar concluida dentro de los treinta das siguientes al tr-
mino sealado para las audiencias del Tribunal ( no ser que este acuerde una prrroga que no exceder de treinta das) y el laudo se pronunciar dentro de treinta das despus de cerradas las audiencias. Copias certificadas del laudo se darn  los agentes  abogados de las respectivas partes y se enviarn al Embajador de Mxico en Washington y al Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos, as como al Ministro de Negocios Extranjeros de los Pases Bajos para su archivo .

X.

X.

Decision.

Should the decision and award
of the tribunal be against the Republic of Mexico, the findings shall state the amount and in what currency the same shall be payable, and shall be for such amount as under the contentions and evidence may be just. Such final award, if any, shall be paid to the Secretary of State of the United States of America within eight months from the date of its making.
XI.

Si el laudo del tribunal fuere adverso  la Repblica Mexicana, sus conclusiones expresarn l suma, la especie de moneda en que ha de ser pagada , y la suma ser la que se considere justa conforme  lo probado y alegado. La suma, si alguna fuere definitivamente fallada, ser pagada al Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de Amrica dentro de ocho meses desde la fecha del laudo.
XI.

Admission of facts. The agents and counsel for the
respective parties may stipulate for the admission of any facts , and
such stipulation , duly signed , shall be accepted as proof thereof.

Los agentes y abogados de las
respectivas partes podrn convenir en la admisin de cualesquiera hechos, y tal convenio debidamente firmado ser admitido como prueba de los mismos hechos.

XII.

XII .

Expenses. Ante, p. 552.

Each of the parties hereto shall pay its own expenses, and onehalf of the expenses of the arbitration, including the pay of the arbitrators ; but such costs shall not constitute any part of the judgment.

Cada una de las partes contra-
tantes pagar sus propios gastos y la mitad de los comunes del arbitraje, incluyendo la remuneracin de los rbitros; mas estas costas no constituirn parte de la suma fallada.

PROTOCOL- MEXICO. PIOUS FUND. MAY 22, 1902.

1923

XIII.

XIII.

Revision shall be permitted as
provided in Article LV of The Hague Convention, demand for revision being made within eight days after announcement of the award. Proofs upon such demand shall be submitted within ten days after revision be allowed (revision
only being granted , if at all, within five days after demand therefor) and counterproofs within the following ten days, unless further time be granted by the Court. Arguments shall be submitted within ten days after the presentation of all proofs, and a judgment or award given within ten days thereafter. All provisions applicable to the original judgment or award shall apply as far as possible to the judgment or award on revision. Provided that all proceedings on revision shall be in the French language.

Habr lugar  revisin conforme  lo prevenido en el articulo

Revision . Ante, p. 1797.

55 de la Convencin de La Haya, si fuere promovida dentro de ocho das desde la notificacin del laudo.

Las pruebas admisibles en este Submission of proofs. recurso se presentarn dentro de diez das desde la fecha en que se

concediere (el cual solamente se

otorgar, si as se acordare, dentro de cinco das despus de su

promocin) y las pruebas de la

parte contraria dentro de los diez das siguientes  no ser que se

conceda mayor plazo por el tribunal. Los alegatos se produ-

cirn dentro de diez das despus

de la presentacin de todas las pruebas, y el fallo  laudo se dar den-

tro de los diez das siguientes.
Todas las disposiciones aplicables French language to al fallo  laudo recurrido se apli- be used. carn en lo posible al fallo  laudo

de revisin, bien entendido que en los procedimientos de este recurso se emplear la lengua francesa .

XIV .

XIV.

The award ultimately given hereunder shall be final and conclusive as to the matters presented for consideration.
Done in duplicate in English and Spanish at Washington, this 22d day of May, A. D. 1902.

El laudo ltimo dado conforme
 este compromiso ser definitivo y concluyente en todos los puntos propuestos  la consideracin del tribunal.
Hecho por duplicado en ingls y en espaol en Washington hoy da 22 de Mayo , A. D. 1902.

Award. Signatures.

JOHN HAY

[ SEAL]

M. DE AZPIROZ [ SEAL]

1924

MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE.

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. DECEMBER 7, 1894.

November 13 , 1894. December 7, 1894.

Convention between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Greece for the exchange ofpostal money orders.

Exchange of money Convention entre les Etats -Unis orders.
d'Amrique et le Royaume de Grce pour l'change des mandatsposte.
Les soussigns Wilson S. Bissell, Postmaster General des Etats-
Unis d'Amrique agissant en vertu des pouvoirs qu'il tient de la loi, et Dmosthnes Avantinos, Directeur- Gnral des Postes et des T-
lgraphes hellniques, dment autoris  cet effet, ont conclu la Convention suivante :

Convention between the United
States of America and the Kingdom of Greece for the exchange of Postal Money Orders.
The undersigned, Wilson S. Bissell , Postmaster-General of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in him by law, and Demosthenes Avantinos, Director-General of the
Hellenic Posts and Telegraphs, duly authorized for the purpose, have concluded the following Convention :

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE I.

Exchange offices.
Inland orders. Post, p. 1928.

Il est tabli entre les Etats-Unis
d'Amrique et le Royaumede Grce un change rgulier de mandatsposte. Cet change aura lieu par l'intermdiaire du bureau de poste  New York, N. Y. , de la part des Etats - Unis et du bureau de poste  Athnes, de la part de la Grce, dsigns comme bureaux d'change .
Ces bureaux se notifieront rciproquement au moyen de listes les mandats tirs d'un pays sur l'autre .
Pour les mandats consigns dans les listes les deux bureaux d'change mettrout des titres internes conformment aux rglements en vigueur ou  tablir dans le pays de destination et aux dispositions de l'article 13 de la prsente Convention .

There is established between the
United States of America and the Kingdom of Greece a regular exchange of Postal Money Orders. This exchange is to be effected by the Post Office at New York, New York, on the part of the United States, and the Post Office at Athens, on the part of Greece, designated as Exchange Offices for the purpose.
The above offices shall notify
each other by means of lists of Orders drawn in one country on the other.
For the Orders entered in the
lists the two Exchange Offices shall issue "inland " Postal Orders in accordance with the regulations in force, or to be established in the
premises in the country of destination, and in accordance with the provisions of Article XIII of this Convention .

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1925

ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE II.

Le montant de chaque mandat sera vers par le dposant et pay au bnficiaire en monnaie d'or, ou en quelque autre monnaie lgale de mme valeur courante.
Toutefois, au cas o, dans l'un desdeux pays circulerait une monnaie ayant cours lgal, mais d'une valeur infrieure  celle de l'or, l'Administration de ce pays aura
la facult de la recevoir et de l'employer elle-mme dans ses rapports avec le public, sous rserve de tenir compte de la diffrence des cours.
ARTICLE III.

The amount of each order shall
be paid in bythe remitter, and paid out to the beneficiary in gold coin or in other lawful money of equal current value.
In case at any time a currency inferior in value to gold coin shall become a legal tender in either country, the postal administration of that country is authorized to receive and to pay it out in its dealings with the public, provided account be taken of such difference of value.
ARTICLE III.

Payment. Legal tender.

Le montant de chaque mandat sera exprim dans la monnaie du pays o payement devra avoir lieu .

The amount of each Order shall To be expressed in moneyofcountry pay-
always be expressed in the money ing.
of the country in which payment is to be made.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTICLE IV .

Aucun mandat payable aux
Etats - Unis ne pourra excder la somme de cent dollars et aucun
mandat payable en Grce ne pourra dpasser un montant en francs, equivalent  cette somme.
Il ne sera pas tenu compte pour l'tablissement des montants des mandats des fractions de cent ou
de demi-dcime (cinq centimes) .

No Order payable in the United States shall exceed the sum of one hundred dollars, and no Order payable in Greece shall exceed an amount in francs equivalent to that sum .
Fractions of a cent or of a demidcime (five centimes) are not to be introduced into the amount of an Order.

Maximum amount. Fractions.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE V.

Le taux de conversion de mon-
naie du pays de destination , des montants verss par les dposants, sera fix par l'Administration du pays d'origine.
Les deux Administrations se communiqueront rciproquement le taux de change ou de conversion qu'elles auront adopt, ainsi que toute modification qu'elles y apporteraient ultrieurement.

The rate of conversion of the Rate of exchange, fixed by country of
amounts deposited by remitters origin. into the money of the country of payment shall be fixed by the administration of the country of origin .
The two administrations shall
communicate to each other the rate of exchange or of conversion fixed by them as well as the
changes they may make therein .

ARTICLE VI .

ARTICLE VI.

Chacune des deux Administra- Each of the two administrations Fees.

tions fixera les taxes  percevoir shall fix the fees charged upon

sur les mandats-poste qu'elle crera sur l'autre pays.
Cette taxe ne devra pas, toute-

Orders issued in its own country and payable in the other.
These fees shall not, however,

fois, dpasser un pour cent des exceed one per centum upon the

sommes rondes qui forment les amounts constituting the divisions degrs de l'chelle de perception . in the schedule of fees.

1926

NOVEMBER 13. 1894. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

Les deux Administrations se donneront connaissance des taxes
qu'elles auront tablies et des changements qu'elles y apporteraient ultrieurement.
Les mandats - poste et les acquits donns sur ces mandats , de mme que les rcpisss  dlivrer au dposant ne pourront tre soumis  la charge des expditeurs ou des destinataires des fonds,  aucun droit ou taxe quelconque , en sus des taxes  percevoir en vertu des paragraphes 1 et 2 de cet article .

The two administrations shall communicate to each other the fees
which they shall have established and the changes which they may subsequently make therein."
The Postal Orders and the re-
ceipts given upon such Orders as well as the receipts to be delivered to the remitters shall not be subjected at the expense of the remitters or the payees of the amounts to any charge or tax whatsoever, in addition to the fees mentioned in sections 1 and 2 of this article.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE VII.

Credits.

L'Administration qui crera les mandats crditera celle du pays o le paiement doit en avoir lieu , du montant total des mandats annoncs , en sus, d'une commission d'un
demi pour cent du montant total des mandats.

The postal administration by whichthe Money Orders are issued shall credit the administration of the country of payment with the total amount of the Orders which
it has certified to the latter, in addition to a commission of one-
half of one per cent. on the total amount of such Orders.

ARTICLE VIII .

ARTICLE VIII.

Guaranty of payments.

Les sommes converties en man-

dats-poste sont garanties aux d-

posants jusqu'au moment ou elles

auront t rgulirement payes

aux bnficiaires ou aux mandataires de ceux- ci , ou bien rembour-

ses aux dposants ux-mmes Transferby indorse- Est rserv aux Administrations ment.
de chacun des pays contractants le

droit de dclarer transmissible par

voie d'endossement, sur son terri-

toire, la proprit des mandats-

poste provenant de l'autre pays.

The sums converted into Postal
Orders are guaranteed to the remitters until they shall have been regularly paid to the payees or to the representatives of the latter, or shall have been refunded to the remitters .
The administration of each of
the two contracting countries reserves the right to declare transferable, within its territory, by means of indorsement , the ownership of Orders originating in the other.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE IX.

Time limit. Repayments.

Les mandats-poste qui n'auront pas t pays dans le dlai d'une anne depuis la date de rception de la liste dans laquelle ils furent aviss, seront dclars prims et non payables. Les montants verss pour ces mandats seront remis  la disposition de l'Administration du pays d'origine .
Remboursement d'un mandat ne
sera effectu qu'aprs qu'il aura t constat de la part du bureau central du pays de destination que le mandat n'a pas t pay.

Money Orders which shall not
have been paid within one year from the date of receipt of the list in which they were certified shall become void. The sums received for such Money Orders shall accrue to and be at the disposal of the administration of the country of origin.
Repayment of an Order shall not, in any case, be made, until it shall have been ascertained from the Chief Office of the country of payment that the Order has not been paid.

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1927

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE X.

A l'expiration de chaque trimestre l'Administration des postes hellniques prparera le compte des sommes payes et des crdits  allouer de part et d'autre en excution de l'article 7 ci-dessus, ainsi qu'un tat des mandats rembourss par chaque Administration .
L'Administration des postes des
Etats- Unis examinera le compte, le rectifiera s'il y a lieu, et si le solde est en faveur de la Grce en transmettra le montant  celle- ci dans les quinze jours au plus tard aprs la rception du compte.
Si le solde s'tablit en faveur de l'Administration des Etats -Unis, l'Administration des postes hellniques en transmettra le montant  celle-ci au plus tard dans les quinze jours qui suivront l'avis de l'acceptation ou de la rectification du compte .
Le payement du solde devra toujours tre effectu en monnaie d'or au moyen d'une lettre de change,  vue, tire, en francs, sur Paris.
Les frais  rsulter de l'achat de
lettres de change, en payement des soldes sont  la charge de l'Administration qui effectue le payement.

At the expiration of each quarter the postal administration of Greece shall prepare an account comprising the sums paid and the credits to be allowed on each side in conformity with Article VII , as well as a statement of the Orders refunded by each administration.
The postal administration of the United States shall examine this account, correct it, if necessary, and, if the balance is in favor of Greece, shall transmit the amount due within fifteen days, at the latest, after the receipt of the account.
If the account shows a balance
in favor of the administration of the United States the postal administration of Greece shall transmit the amount to the former within fifteen days, at the latest, after receipt of notice of acceptance or of correction of the account.
The balance must always be paid in gold by means of a bill of exchange payable at sight, drawn in francs on Paris, France.
The expenses incident to the purchase of bills of exchange for the payment of balances must always be borne by the administration by which payment is made.

Accounts. Ante, p. 1926.
Expenses.

ARTICLE XI .

ARTICLE XI.

Pour tablir le solde, le crance la plus faible est convertie dans la monnaie du pays, dont la crance est la plus forte. Cette conversion a lieu d'aprs le taux moyen du change cot  New York pour lettres de change,  vue, tires dans cette ville sur Paris pendant le trimestre, auquel le compte se rapporte si le solde est en faveur de la Grce . En cas que le solde est en faveur des Etats -Unis la crance la plus forte est convertie en francs au taux moyen du change cot  Paris pour lettres de change  vue tires dans cette ville sur New York pendant le trimestre auquel le compte se rapporte.

To ascertain the amount to be Conversion of balances.
paid, the smaller credit is to be converted into money of the country which has the larger credit ; if the balance is in favor of Greece, this conversion is to be effected at the average rate of exchange quoted at New York for sight bills of exchange drawn in that city on Paris during the quarter to which that account pertains. If the balance is in favor of the United
States, the larger credit is to be converted into French money, at the average rate of exchange quoted at Paris for sight bills of exchange drawn in that city on New York, during the quarter to which the account pertains.

1928

MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE . NOVEMBER 13, 1894. DECEMBER 7, 1894.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTICLE XII.

Payment of bal-

ances.

Chaque fois que dans le cours

d'un trimestre il est constat que

le montant des mandats tirs sur une des deux Administrations

dpasse de cinq mille dollars ou

vingt-cinq mille francs le montant des mandats tirs sur l'autre Administration, celle- ci fait parvenir  la premire le montant approximatif de la diffrence tablie en

Ante, p. 1927.

chiffres ronds,  titre d'acompte, au moyen de lettres de change et aux conditions indiques  l'article 10.

Whenever during the course of a quarter it is ascertained that the amount of Orders drawn upon either of the two administrations exceeds by five thousand dollars.
or twenty- five thousand francs the amount of Orders drawn upon the other administration the latter shall send to the former the approximate amount of the ascertained
difference in a round sum as a payment on account by means of bills of exchange under the conditions prescribed in Article X.

ARTICLE XIII .

ARTICLE XIII.

Forms and condi- La forme et les conditions d'tions.
mission des mandats dans chaque pays sont dtermines par les rglements en vigueur dans le pays d'origine .

The form and conditions of issue
of Postal Orders in each country are subject to the regulations in force in the country of origin.
The form and the condition of

Le mode et les conditions de payement des mandats- poste, y compris ce qui concerne la suspension de payement, le remplacement des titres, l'mission des duplicatas et toutes les autres formalits se

payment of Postal Orders, including those relating to the suspension of payment, the renewing of Orders, the issue of duplicates, and all other formalities concerning payment, are subject to the regu

rapportant au payement , sont rgles par les dispositions en vigueur dans le pays de destination.

lations in force in the country of destination .

ARTICLE XIV .

ARTICLE XIV.

siTonemopfosreravriyce.suspen- Chaque Administration est au-

torise  suspendre temporaire-

ment l'change des mandats-poste,

chaque fois que le cours du change

ou toute autre circonstance peut

Notice of action.

engendrer des abus ou porter prjudice au Trsor.
Avis de toute mesure de cette

nature doit tre donn immdiate-

ment  l'autre Administration, et

au besoin par voie tlgraphique .

Each administration is author-
ized to suspend temporarily the interchange of Postal Money Orders, whenever the course of exchange or any other circumstances may give rise to abuses or cause detriment to the revenues.
Notice of action of this nature must be communicated immediately to the other administration , if necessary, by telegraph.

Regulations. Post, p. 1929.

ARTICLE XV.

ARTICLE XV.

Les Administrations postales des deux pays sont autorises  rgler de commun accord les mesures de dtail pour l'excution de cette Convention , et  les modifier  toute poque suivant les besoins du service.

The two postal administrations shall have power by mutual agreement to arrange detailed regulations for the execution of the present Convention and to modify them at any time according to the requirements of the service.

NOVEMBER 13 , 1894. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE. DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1929

ARTICLE XVI.

ARTICLE XVI.

La prsente Convention sera soumise  la ratification de la Chambre hellnique aprs laquelle elle sera mise  excution  une
date  tre fixe de commun accord entre les Administrations postales des deux pays contractants, et restera en vigueur jusqu' l'expiration de la priode d'une anne aprs la date  laquelle l'une des deux Administrations aura notifi  l'autre son intention de faire cesser les effets .
Fait en double original et sign  Athnes le 1-13 Novembre, de l'anne 1894.
Le Directeur Gnral des Postes et des Tlgraphes hellniques.
D. AVANTINOS.

This Convention shall be submitted to the Legislative Chamber of Greece for ratification , and shall take effect after such ratifi-
cation upon a date to be fixed by mutual agreement between the postal administrations of the two contracting countries, and shall remain in force until the expiration of one year after the date upon which one of the two administrations shall have notified the other of its intention to terminate the same.
Done in duplicate and signed at Washington the seventh day of December, A. D. 1894.
WILSON S. BISSELL, PPoossttmaster- General, United States.

Ratification . Signatures.

Rglement de dtail pour l'xcution de la Convention conclue le 13-Novembre, 7 Dcembre, 1894, entre les Etats-Unis
d'Amrique et le Royaume de Grce, pour l'change des mandats-poste.
Les soussigns, en vertu de l'Article 15 de la dite Convention pour l'change des mandats- poste ont arrt les mesures d'excution ci -apres :

Detailed regulations for the execution Detailed regulaof the Convention concluded November tions.

13-December 7, 1894, between the Postal Administration of the United States of

America and the Kingdom of Greece, concerning the exchange of Postal Orders.
In pursuance of the terms of Article

Ante, p. 1928.

XV of the said Convention concerning the exchange of Postal Orders, the under-

signed have agreed upon the following rules of action :

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE I.

En ce qui concerne les listes au moyen desquelles les bureaux d'change devront, en excution de l'Article ler de la Convention, se notifier l'un  l'autre les mandats  payer, le bureau des mandats  Athnes
fera usage du formulaire " A " ci-annex, et le bureau des mandats internationaux
de New York, du formulaire " B " galement ci-annex.

For the lists by means of which the Exchange Offices are, in accordance with Article I of the Convention, to notify each other of the Orders to be paid, the Money Order Office at Athens shall make use of Form " A," hereto annexed , and the International Money Order Office at New York of the Form " B, " hereto annexed.

Lists. Post, pp. 1933, 1934.

ARTICLE II.
Les bureaux d'change d'Athnes et de New York se donnent avis de sommes verses dans leur pays respectif pour tre payes dans l'autre pays , avec indication des noms, prnoms et de l'adresse des bnficiaires.
Is se servent  cet effet de listes sur lesquelles les versements sont inscrits en dollars et en francs.
Ces listes sont crites avec de l'encre  copier, d'aprs les enttes imprims et seront transmises deux fois par semaine en double expdition.

ARTICLE II.
The Exchange Offices of Athens and Names and address of payees.
New York shall advise each other of the
amounts deposited in the one country for payment in the other, furnishing the surname, given names, and address of the
payees. To this end they shall make use of lists
on which the amounts shall be entered in dollars and francs.
These lists are to be written with copying ink, in accordance with the printed headings, and to be forwarded twice a week in duplicate.

ARTICLE III.

ARTICLE III.

S'il arrivait qu'au moment de l'expdi-
tion , il n'y aurait pas de mandats-poste  notifier, le bureau d'change expditeur

Should it happen at the time of dis- Lists tobenumbered and sent regularly.
patching any mail that there are no Money Orders to be advised to the Ex-

1930

NOVEMBER 13, 1894 MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

devrait nanmoins insrer dans la dpche une liste portant en travers l'inscription "pas de mandats-poste. "
Ces listes portent chacune un numro d'ordre continu, dont la srie se renouvelle au commencement de chaque anne.
Les mandats inscrits  ces listes seront galement numrots d'une manire continue ; la srie des numros recommencera chaque anne.

change Office, a list must nevertheless be sent in that mail; in such event, the dispatching Exchange Office will write across the list the words, " No Money Orders."
The list shall bear consecutive num-
bers, commencing with the calendar year. The Orders inscribed in the lists shall
also be consecutively numbered, the series of numbers to commence with each calendar year.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTICLE IV.

Correction of errors. Chaque liste sera vrifie par le bureau d'change destinataire, et si celui-ci y constatait des erreurs manifestes, il les rectifierait  l'encre rouge. Ce bureau remplira ensuite les colonnes qui lui sont rserves et renverra l'un des doubles de la liste au bureau expditeur. Il accusera ensuite rception de cette liste au dit bureau expditeur sur la lettre d'envoi qu'il aura  lui transmttre.
Les rectifications opres devront toujours tre expliques au bas de la lettre d'envoi.

Each list is to be carefully examined by the receiving office, and if the latter finds that it contains manifest errors, it will correct them with red ink. That
office will then fill up the columns intended for its use, and return one of the
copies of the list to the dispatching office. In the letter of transmittal of the next
list which it has to send, the receiving office, above mentioned, will acknowledge the receipt of the list in question to the office which sent it.
The corrections made are always to be mentioned with explanations at the end of the letter of transmittal.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE V.

Explanations.

Lorsqu'une liste contiendra des erreurs ou des irrgularits ne pouvant tre redresses sans l'intervention du bureau
d'change du pays d'origine, le bureau d'change du pays de destination rclamera des explications au bureau d'change expditeur en mme temps qu'il lui accusera rception de la liste. Les explications rclames seront fournies aussi promptement que possible. En attendant, le payement des mandats entachs d'erreur sera diffr.

When the list contains errors or irregu larities which cannot be corrected without consultation with the Exchange Office of the country of origin, the Exchange Office of the country of destination shall request explanation from the dispatching Exchange Office at the same time that it acknowledges the receipt of the list. The explanations requested are to be furnished as promptly as possible. Meantime the payment of Orders in regard to which errors have been discovered is to be suspended .

ARTICLE VI .

ARTICLE VI.

Duplicates of miss- S'il est constat, par le numro de la

ing lists.

liste prcdente que la liste suivante n'est

point parvenue, le bureau destinataire

rclamera cette dernire liste par le premier courrier. Ds rception de cette

rclamation le bureau expditeur trans-

mettra un duplicata de la liste manquante.
ARTICLE VII.

Should it appear from the number of the list received that the preceding list failed to arrive, the receiving office shall apply for such list by the first mail. On receipt of such application the dispatching office shall forward a duplicate of the missing list.
ARTICLE VII.

Form for quarterly L'Administration des Postes Hellni-

account.

ques fera usage du formulaire " C " ci-

Post, p. 1935.

annex pour l'tablissement du compte

trimestriel prvu par l'Article 10 de la Convention .

Ce compte sera dress d'aprs les listes acceptes ou rectifies par les bureaux

d'change destinataires. Il devra toujours tre tabli sans dlai et tre transmis  l'Administration des Postes des

Etats- Unis ds que toutes les listes du bureau des mandats internationaux de

New York dates du trimestre auquel le

compte se rapporte, seront parvenues au bureau des mandats  Athnes, et que

tous les duplicatas des listes du mme

trimestre transmis par ce dernier bureau,

For the quarterly account provided for by Article X of the Convention, the Greek Postal Administration shall make use of Form " C," hereto attached.'
This account is to be made upon the basis of the lists accepted or corrected by the receiving offices of exchange. It is always to be prepared promptly and transmitted to the Postal Administration of the United States as soon as all the lists
from the International Money Order Office of New York bearing the date of the quarter to which it pertains shall have reached the Money Order Office of
Athens, and all the duplicates of the lists of the same quarter dispatched by the latter office shall have been returned to

NOVEMBER 13, 1894 MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1931

lui auront t renvoys par celui de New York. Autant que possible ce compte sera transmis par l'Administration des Postes Hellniques,  celle des Etats-Unis au plus tard six semaines aprs l'expiration du trimestre.

it from New York. If it be possible, this account is to be transmitted by the Greek Postal Administration to that of the United States, at the latest, within six weeks after the close of the quarter.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTICLE VIII.

L'Administration des Postes du pays
d'origine devra recevoir avis de tous les mandats qui n'auraient pas t pays  leurs bnficiaires respectifs et dans le dlai d'une anne aprs la rception de la liste. Ds que les deux Administrations se seront mises d'accord au sujet de ces mandats, et conformment  l'article 10 de la Convention, ceux-ci feront l'objet d'un compte trimestriel pour que leur montant puisse tre rembours aux dposants.
On comprendrade mme dans ce compte les mandats dont le remboursement aurait t rclam au pays de destination et autoris par celui-ci, en excution de l'Article 9 de la Convention .

The postal administration of the coun- Disposition of untry of origin shall be duly notified of all paid orders, etc.

Orders which shall not have been paid to

the respective payees within one year after the date of the receipt of the list. After an agreement shall have been reached in regard to these Orders, they
shall be entered in the quarterly accounts,

Ante, p. 1927.

in order that the amounts thereof may be restored to the remitters in conformity

with Article X of the Convention. In like manner, there shall be em-

braced in this account Postal Orders application for repayment of which has been

made to and permission therefor received

from, the country of destination, in conformity with Article IX of the Conven- Ante, p. 1926.
tion .

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE IX.

Le paiement des mandats-poste provenant des Etats-Unis d'Amrique sera excut en Grce comme il suit:
Si les mandats sont destins pour Athnes ou pour le autres cinq bureaux d'change hellniques, le paiement sera effectu en or et l'acquit aura lieu sur de titres internationaux mis par le bureau d'Athnes aussitt  la rception de la liste respective du bureau de New York, sans aucun port additionnel de la part des destinataires.
Mais si les mandats sont destins pour des bureaux ne participant pas  l'change des mandats-poste internationaux et qui ne paient que de mandats internes, en
papier monnaie, les sommes destines pour bnficiaires y rsidant seront converties par le bureau d'change d'Athnes en papier monnaie sur la base du cours
du dernier bulletin trimestriel (qui sert pour le payement des taxes tlgraphiques et postales du service international, et qui est fix par trimestre par une Commission forme de trois membres, dont l'un le Directeur Gnral des
Postes et des Tlgraphes et les deux autres le Directeur de la Comptabilit Gnrale de l'Etat et le Caissier Central de
l'Etat ) , et aprs cela elles seront crites sur de titres internes mis par le bureau d'Athnes; le montant de ces titres reprsentera en papier monnaie le produit de cette conversion montaire et les titres internes ainsi redigs seront trans-
mis aux bureaux  qui appartiennent pour y tre pays en papier monnaie.
L'acquit sera donn sur les titres internes et la taxe respective sera verse par les bnficiaires aux bureaux du payement.
Tous les bureaux hellniques qui sont autoriss  participer  l'change des mandats-poste avec les Etats-Unis, mettront des mandat-poste en or seulement.

Payment of

Money

Orders originating

Payment of money orders originating in

in the United States shall be effected in the United States.

Greece as follows:

If the Orders are intended for payment

in Athens or at any of the five other

Greek International Money Order offices, payment shall be made in gold, and

receipt therefor shall be given on International Money Orders issued at Athens, on receipt of the list from the New

York Exchange Office , without additional charge to the payees.
But if the orders are intended for offi-

ces which do not take part in the ex-

change of International Money Orders, and which pay only Domestic Orders in

paper currency, the amounts intended for payees residing at such offices shall be

converted by the Athens Exchange Office into paper currency at the rate

quoted in the last quarterly bulletin

(which serves for the payment of tele-

graphic and postal charges in the international service, and which is fixed

quarterly by a Commission, composed of three members, of whom one is the Di-

rector-General of Posts and Telegraphs,

and the others are the Director of the General Accounts of the State, and the

Treasurer-General of the State, ) and they

shall then be entered on Domestic Money Orders issued by the office of Athens ; the amount of these Orders shall repre-

sent the product in paper money of such conversion, and the Domestic Orders

thus issued shall be sent to the offices drawn on, to be paid in paper currency.

Receipt shall be given on the Domestic Orders, and the fee therefor shall be

paid by the respective payees at the paying office.
All the Greek offices which are author-

ized to take part in the exchange of Money Orders with the United States

shall issue Money Orders in gold only.

1932

NOVEMBER 13. 1894. MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE. DECEMBER 7, 1894.

Quarterly bulletins. Le bulletin trimestriel ci-haut mmeentionn sera adress au commencement de
chaque trimestre  l'Administration des Postes des Etats- Unis pour en prendre connaissance.

The quarterly bulletin above referred to shall be sent at the commencement of
each quarter to the Postal Administration of the United States for its information.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE X.

Duplicate quarterly Le compte trimestriel devra toujours

accounts.

tre transmis en double expdition 

l'Administration des Postes des Etats-

Unis, laquelle en renverra une expdi-

tion, dment accepte, ou modifie s'il y lieu,  l'Administration des Postes

Hellniques.

The quarterly account shall always be transmitted in duplicate to the Postal Administration of the United States,
which shall return one copy, duly accepted, or corrected, if necessary, to the Postal Administration of Greece.

ARTICLE XI .

ARTICLE XI.

Payments, etc. Ante, pp. 1927, 1928.

Les payements des soldes et des comptes faits en excution des Articles
10 et 12 de la Convention seront effectus au moyen des traites en francs d'or, tires sur Paris et payables  l'ordre du Directeur Gnral des Postes et des Tlgraphes Hellniques ou  l'ordre du PostmasterGeneral des Etats-Unis suivant que la balance est en faveur de l'Administration des Etats-Unis ou de celle de Grce.

Payments of balances and payments
on account made in pursuance of Articles X and XII of the Convention are to be effected by means of bills ofexchange, drawn in franes in gold, on Paris, and payable to the Order of the DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs of Greece, or of the Postmaster-General of the United States, according to whether the balance is in favor of the Postal Admin-
istration of Greece , or of the United States.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTICLE XII.

Rate of conversion. Pour tablir la balance du compte trimestriel la conversion de l'une des monnaies dans l'autre sera faite conformment au cours adopt par l'Administration des Etats-Unis pour les mandats payables en francs, c'est  dire 1 dollar = francs 5.15 .

For the purpose of balancing the quarterly account the conversion of the one money into the other shall be made in
conformity with the rate adopted by the Postal Administration of the United States for Money Orders payable in francs, i. e., 1 dollar Frs. 5.15.

ARTICLE XIII .

ARTICLE XIII.

Disposition of other Outre les demandes dont il est question

claims .

 l'article 9 concernant le remboursement

Ante, p. 1926.

des mandats , lesdeux Administrations con-

viennent de donner suite aux demandes

relatives aux mandats changs entre la

Grce et les Etats-Unis, en ce qui touche,

par exemple, les changements de nom ,

de lieux de payement, les demandes de renseignements au sujet de payements effectus, etc., et de traiter ces demandes

conformment aux rglements en vigueur

dans chaque pays respectivement.

In addition to the claims mentioned in Article IX concerning the repayment of Orders, the two administrations agree to take charge of other claims in relation to Orders exchanged between Greece and the United States, for example, in regard to changes of name, places of payment, requests for information concerning payments which have been made, etc. , and to dispose of them in accordance with the regulations in force in each country respectively .

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTICLE XIV.

Duration ofdetailed Le prsent rglement de detail sera mis

regulations.

en excution en mme temps que la Con-

vention du 13 Novembre et 7 Dcembre,

1894, et il aura la mme dure que cette dernire .

Signatures.

Fait en double et sign  Athnes le

17-30 Mars, 1902, et  Washington le 22 Avril, 1902 .

A. ROUKIS, Le Directeur Gnral des Postes et des Tl-

graphes Hellniques.

The present detailed regulations shall take effect at the same time as the Convention of the 13th November and 7th December, 1894, and shall continue in force as long as the latter.
Done in duplicate and signed at Athens the 17/30th day of March, 1902, and at Washington the 22d day of April, 1902 .
A. ROUKIS,
The Director- General of Posts and Telegraphs of Greece.

Le Postmaster d'Amrique.

H. C. PAYNE, Gnral des Etats- Unis

H. C. PAYNE, Postmaster-General of the United States.
[Seal of the Post Office Department of the United States. ]

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE. DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1933

Liste No ..........

A. REVERSE. BUREAU D'ECHANGE,

Timbre du Bureau d'Athnes.

Form A.

Athnes ......

..190..

Monsieur J'ai reu votre liste de mandats internationaux , No ...... du .... 19 ... le .... 19 ... La vrification  laquelle il a t procd a fait constater l'exactitude des totaux , * soit sommes payes ....francs .... centimes.
A mon tour je vous transmets ci-contre ( en double expdition ) , une liste de Mandats Internationaux , No .............., dont le montant total est de .... Dollars .... cents.
Veuillez vrifier, * complter, et me renvoyer l'original de cette liste, muni de votre accus de rception.
J'ai l'honneur d'tre votre obissant serviteur,

* Toute diffrence constate devra tre explique ci-dessous :

To the Postmaster,
Money Order Exchange Office, New York, N. Y.

Timbre du Bureau d'change.

A.
( REVERSE. ) BUREAU d'ECHANGE, NEW YORK, N. Y. ..19 ....

MonsieurJ'ai vrifi la liste ci-contre, No .... date du ........19 ........d'un montant total de....Dollars .... cents.
J'ai trouv cette liste exacte, sauf en ce qui suit:

Au Bureau d'Echange de Mandats-Poste  Athnes.

Le Directeur du Bureau de Poste de New York.

A.

ATHENS EXCHANGE LIST.
Liste de Mandats-Poste mis en Grce et payables aux Etats- Unis d'Amrique.

Timbre du Bureau
d'Athnes.

Liste No .... Feuille No .....

DATE DE L'ARRIVEE DE LA PRESENTE LISTE A NEW YORK, N. Y. .190 ....

Colonnes  remplir par le bureau expditeur d'Athenes.

Colonnes  remplir par le bureau destinataire de
New York, N. Y.

Franes. Cts. Dollars. Cts.

Observations.

1934 Form B.

liNd'noeot.redrrneational

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. MONEY-ORDER CONVENTION- GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

Timbre du Bureau
de New York.
Liste No .... Feuille No

B.
UNITED STATES EXCHANGE LIST.
Liste de mandats poste mis aux Etats- Unis d'Amrique et payables en Grce.
DATE DE L'ARRIVE DE LA PRSENTE LISTE  ATHNES. .19 ....

Colonnes  remplir par le bureau expditeur de New York.
Adresse du bnficiaire.

Colonnes  remplir par le bureau destinataire
d'Athnes.

etslBsiueutrrqrueealu .-dpmoafsintneditaitf

-pimNdonaus-nmtedarto ltpbeaumrrineseau

PGorouou-vernement

.bedNxunoacmfticiaire

.lqaBmeumuaiirnsedaaut

Memdonauntdaantt pGmaroynacn-qauiee lbpdeluaeser-eau

.edNxuopaocmstant

.oDmdraauitngeidnaatl

.oNmdroaui.ngidnaatl

Observations.

.d'Athnes

,lVnrooiuucle-alleit .mro

oMmdroiaugnit-daantt Endemteanoaslntsn-aie .Unis

.tination

.paiement

.vince

Dollars. Cts. Francs. Cts.

B.

Liste No ......

(REVERSE. )
BUREAU D'ECHANGE, New York, N. Y.

Timbre du Bureau
de New York.
.19 ....

Monsieur-J'ai reu votre liste de Mandats Internationaux, No ..

du ......

19 ... , le ........ 19 ... La vrification  laquelle il a t procd a fait constater

l'exactitude des totaux,* soit : sommes payes.........

dollars..

.cents.

A mon tour je vous transmets ci-contre (en double expdition ) , une liste de Mandats Internationaux, No ...., dont le montant total est de ..... Francs .... centimes.
Veuillez vrifier, complter, et me renvoyer l'original de cette liste, muni de votre accus de rception.
J'ai l'honneur d'tre votre obissant serviteur,

Au Bureau d'Echange de Mandats-Poste  Athnes.

*Toute diffrence constate devra tre explique ci-dessous.

Timbre du Bureau
d'Echange.

B.
BUREAU D'ECHANGE, Athnes ...

.19 ....

Monsieur J'ai vrifi la liste ci- contre, No .... , date du .... 19 ..., d'un montant total de.... Francs .... centimes.
J'ai trouv cette liste exacte, sauf en ce qui suit :

Au Bureau d'Echange de Mandats-Poste  New York, E. U. A.

Le Directeur du Bureau de Poste d'Athnes.

NOVEMBER 13, 1894. MONEY- ORDER CONVENTION-GREECE . DECEMBER 7, 1894.

1935 .

C.

Form C.

Compte des Mandats-poste changs entre la Grce, et les Etats- Unis d'Amrique pendant

le trimestre expirant au...

190 ....

Mandats mis en Grce.

Mandats mis aux Etats-Unis.

Nos. Dates des des
Listes. Listes.

Numros internationaux des ordres de paye-
ment.

de



Montant total de chaque Liste.
Dollars. Cts.

Nos. Dates des des
Listes. Listes.

Numros internationaux des ordres de paye-
ment.

de



Montant total de chaque Liste.
Francs. Cts.

Total

Total

D.

Etat des mandates impays  porter au crdit de l'Administration qui les a mis.

Mandats mis en Grce.

Mandats mis aux Etats-Unis.

Numro de la Liste.

Date de la Liste.

Numro inter-
national.

Montant du Mandat.
Dollars. Cents.

Numro de la Liste.

Date de la Liste.

Numro inter-
national.

Montant du Mandat.
Francs. Cents.

Form D.

Total ....

Total....

E. Balance.

En faveur de l'Office de Grce.

En faveur de l'Office des Etats-Unis.

Francs. Cts.

C.

Montant des mandats mis aux

Montants des mandats mis en

Etats- Unis (voir Compte C ) . Montant du droit revenant  la

Grce (voir Compte C) .. Montant du droit revenant aux

Grce, soit: pour cent, du montant ci-dessus ..

Etats- Unis, soit: pour cent. du montant ci-dessus

Montant des mandats prims

Montant des mandats prims

(voir Etat D) .

(voir Etat D) ...

Montant des mandats rembourss.. Total de l'avoir de la Grce
Avoir des Etats-Unis,  dduire
, c. ,  convertir d'aprs le taux convenu de frs. 5.15 pour chaque dollar

Montant des mandats rembourss.. Totalde l'avoir des Etats- Unis .
Avoir de la Grce,  dduire frs. ----, c. --,  convertir d'aprs le taux moyen convenu de frs. 5.15 pour chaque dollar .....

Balance en faveur de l'Administration de la Grce

Balance en faveur de l'Administration des Etats-Unis .

A comptes pays par l'Office des Etats-Unis. Frs. C.
Date

A comptes pays par

l'Office de Grce .

C.

Date

Form E.

Balance dfinitive .

Balance dfinitive

Le compte ci-dessus fait ressortir une balance gnrale de

dtaills ci-dessus, se solde dfinitivement par une somme de

Athnes, le

190-.

qui, aprs dduction des a comptes en faveur de l'Office

Vu et accept pour la somme de

Le Directeur-Gnral des Postes et des Tlgraphes de Grce. en faveur de l'office

L'Auditeur pour le Departement des Postes.

1936 ADDITIONAL ACT-INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY . DECEMBER 14, 1900.

December 14, 1900.

An additional act, concluded at Brussels December 14, 1900, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States and other countries, for the protection of industrial property, modifying the Industrial Property Convention of March 20, 1883. Signed at Brussels, December 14, 1900; ratification advised by the Senate March 7, 1901; ratified by the President, April 16, 1901; ratification deposited at Brussels, May 3, 1901; proclaimed, August 25, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas an Additional Act modifying the Industrial Property Convention of March 20 , 1883 , was signed at Brussels, on December 14, 1900, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States and other Powers,
a true copy of which Additional Act, in the French language is word for word as follows:
[Translation .]

Union internationale pour la pro- International union for the protection de la proprit indus- tection of industrial property. trielle.

Vol. 25, p. 1372

ACTE ADDITIONNEL DU 14 DCEMBRE 1900 MODIFIANT LA CONVENTION DU 20 MARS 1883 AINSI QUE LE PROTOCOLE DE CLTURE Y ANNEX.

ADDITIONAL ACT OF DECEMBER 14, 1900 , MODIFYING THE CONVENTION OF MARCH 20 , 1883 , AS WELL AS THE FINAL PROTOCOL THERETO ANNEXED.

Contracting parties. Sa Majest le Roi des Belges; le Prsident des tats- Unis du Brsil ; Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark; le Prsident de la Rpublique Dominicaine ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et, en son nom, Sa Majest la Reine Rgente du Royaume ; le Prsident des tatsUnis d'Amrique ; le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise ; Sa Majest la Reine du Royaume-Uni de la Grande- Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indes ; Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie ; Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon ; Sa Majest la Reine des Pays - Bas ; Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves; Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie ; Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge; le Conseil Fdral de la Confdration Suisse; le Gouver-

His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; The President of the United
States of Brazil ; His Majesty the King of Denmark ; the President of the Dominican Republic ; His Majesty the King of Spain, and in his name, Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom; The President of the United States of America ; The President of the French Republic; Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , Empress of India ; His Majesty the King of Italy; His Majesty the Emperor of Japan ; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands ; His Majesty the King of Portugal and the Algarves; His Majesty the King of Servia ; His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway: The

ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY . DECEMBER 14, 1900. 1937

nement Tunisien, ayant jug utile d'apporter certaines modifications et additions  la Convention internationale du 20 mars 1883, ainsi

Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation ; The Government of Tunis, having deemed it useful to make certain modifications and

qu'au Protocole de clture annex a ladite Convention, ont nomm pour Leurs Plnipotentiaires , savoir :
Sa Majest le Roi des Belges : M. A. Nyssens, Ancien Ministre de l'Industrie et du Travail ; M. L. Capelle, Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire, Directeur gnral du Commerce et des Consulats au Ministre des Af-

additions to the International Convention of March 20 , 1883 , as well as to the Final Protocol annexed to said Convention, have named for their Plenipotentiaries the following :
His Majesty the King of the Belgians : Mr. A. Nyssens , former Minister of Industry and of Labor; Mr. L. Capelle , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary , Director General of Commerce and of Consulates in the

faires trangres ; M. Georges de Ro, Avocat  la Cour d'Appel de Bruxelles, Ancien Secrtaire de l'Ordre: M. J. Dubois, Directeur gnral au Ministre de l'Industrie et du Travail.
Le Prsident des tats- Unis du Brsil: M. da Cunha , Envoy Ex-

Ministry of Foreign Affairs ; Mr. Georges de Ro, Advocate at the Court of Appeal of Brussels , former Secretary of the order. Mr. J. Dubois , Director General in the Ministry of Industry and Labor.
The President of the United States of Brazil : Mr. da Cunha,

traordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire des tats-Unis du Brsil prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges.
Sa Majest le Roi de Danemark: M. H. Holten- Nielsen , Membre de la Commission des Brevets , Enregistreur des marques de fabrique.
Le Prsident de la Rpublique Dominicaine : M. J.-W. Hunter, Consul gnral de la Rpublique Dominicaine  Anvers.
Sa Majest le Roi d'Espagne et , en son nom, Sa Majest la Reine Rgente du Royaume: M. de Villa Urrutia, Son Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges.
Le Prsident des tats-Unis
d'Amrique : M. Lawrence Townsend, Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire des
tats- Unis d'Amrique prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; M. Francis Forbes ; M. Walter H. Chamberlin, Assistant Commissioner of Patents.
Le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise : M. Grard, Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; M. C. Nicolas, Ancien Conseiller d'tat, Directeur hono-

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of Brazil near His Majesty the King of the Belgians.
His Majesty the King of Denmark: Mr. H. Holten - Nielsen , Member of the Patent Commission , Registrar of Trade- Marks.
The President of the Dominican Republic : Mr. J. W. Hunter, Consul General of the Dominican Republic at Antwerp.
His Majesty the King of Spain, and, in His name, Her Majesty the Queen Regent of the Kingdom: Mr. de Villa Urrutia, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians.
The President of the United States of America : Mr. Lawrence Townsend, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America near His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; Mr. Francis Forbes ; Mr. Walter H. Chamberlin , Assistant Commissioner of Patents .
The President of the French
Republic : Mr. Grard , Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; Mr. C. Nicolas, Former Councillor of

VOL XXXII , PT 2--45

Plenipotentiaries.

1938 ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY . DECEMBER 14, 1900.

raire au Ministre du Commerce , de l'Industrie, des Postes et des Tlgraphes ; M. Michel Pelletier, Avocat  la Cour d'Appel de Paris .
Sa Majest la Reine du RoyaumeUni de la Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande, Impratrice des Indes : Le Trs Honble. C. B. Stuart Wortley, M. P .; Sir Henry Bergne, K. C. M. G. , Chef du Dpartement commercial au Foreign Office ; M. C. N. Dalton, C. B. , Comptroller General of Patents.
Sa Majest le Roi d'Italie : M. Romeo Cantagalli, Son Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges; M. le commandeur Carlo-Francesco Gabba, Snateur, Professeur  l'Universit de Pise ; M. le chevalier Samuele Ottolenghi, Chef de division au Ministre de l'Agriculture, de l'Industrie et du Commerce, Directur du Bureau de la Proprit industrielle.

State , Honorary Director at the Ministry of Commerce , of Industry, of Posts and Telegraphs : Mr. Michel Pelletier, Advocate at the Court of Appeal of Paris.
Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India : The Right Honorable C. B. Stuart Wortley, M. P.; Sir Henry Bergne, K. C. M. G. , Chief of the Commercial Department at the Foreign Office ; Mr. C. N. Dalton , C. B., Comptroller General of Patents.
His Majesty the King of Italy: Mr. Romeo Cantagalli, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians ; Commander Carlo-Francesco Gabba, Senator, Professor at the University of Pisa ; Chevalier Samuele Ottolenghi, Chief of Division at the Ministry of Agriculture, of Industry and of Commerce , Director of the Bureau on Industrial Property.

Sa Majest l'Empereur du Japon : M. Itchiro Motono, Son Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges.
Sa Majest la Reine des PaysBas : M. F.-W.-J.-G. Snyder van Wissenkerke , Docteur en droit, Conseiller au Ministre de la Justice, Directeur du Bureau de la Proprit industrielle .
Sa Majest le Roi de Portugal et des Algarves : M. le Conseiller E. Madeira Pinto , Directeur Gnral au Ministre des Travaux Publics, du Commerce et de l'Industrie.
Sa Majest le Roi de Serbie: M. le Dr. Michel Voutch, Son Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire  Paris .
Sa Majest le Roi de Sude et de Norvge: M. le comte Wrangel, Son Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges.
Le Conseil Fdral de la Con-

His Majesty the Emperor of Japan : Mr. Itchiro Motono, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians.
Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands: Mr. F. W. J. G. Snyder van Wissenkerke , Doctor of Laws, Councillor at the Minis-
try of Justice, Director of the Bureau on Industrial Property.
His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves: Councillor E. Madeira Pinto , Director General at the Ministry of Public Works, of Commerce and Industry .
His Majesty the King of Servia : Dr. Michel Vouitch, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Paris.
His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway: Count Wrangel , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians.
The Federal Council of the Swiss

fdration Suisse : M. J. Borel, Consul Gnral de la Confdration suisse  Bruxelles : M. le Dr.

Confederation : Mr. J. Borel, Consul General of the Swiss Confederation at Brussels ; Doctor Louis-

Louis- Rodolphe de Salis , Profes- Rodolphe de Salis, Professor at

seur  Berne.

Berne.

ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY. DECEMBER 14, 1900 . 1939

Le Prsident de la Rpublique Franaise : pour la Tunisie : M. Grard, Envoy Extraordinaire et Ministre Plnipotentiaire prs Sa Majest le Roi des Belges ; M. Blad, Consul de premire classe au Ministre des Affaires trangres de France .
Lesquels, aprs s'tre communiqu leurs pleins pouvoirs respectifs, trouvs en bonne et due forme, sont convenus des articles suivants :

The President of the French Republic, for Tunis : Mr. Grard, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majestythe King of the Belgians ; Mr. Blad, Consul of the 1st Class at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of France .
Who , after having communicated to each other their full powers , found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE PREMIER.

ARTICLE 1 .

La Convention internationale du
20 mars 1883 est modifie ainsi qu'il suit:
I. L'article 3 de la Convention aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 3. - Sont assimils aux su-
jets ou citoyens des tats contractants, les sujets ou citoyens des tats ne faisant pas partie de l'Union, qui sont domicilis ou ont des tablissements industriels ou
commerciaux effectifs et srieux sur le territoire de l'un des tats de l'Union .
II.-L'article 4 aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 4. - Celui qui aura rgulirement fait le dpt d'une demande de brevet d'invention , d'un dessin oumodle industriel , d'une marque de fabrique ou de commerce , dans l'un des tats contractants ,
jouira, pour effecteur le dpt dans les autres tats, et sous rserve des droits des tiers, d'un droit de
priorit pendant les dlais dtermins ci-aprs.
En consquence, le dpt ultrieurement opr dans l'un des autres tats de l'Union , avant
l'expiration de ces dlais, ne pourra tre invalid par des faits accomplis dans l'intervall , soit , notamment, par un autre dpt, par la publication de l'invention ou son
exploitation, par la mise en vente d'exemplaires du dessin ou du modle, par l'emploi de la marque.
Les dlais de priorit mentionns ci-dessus seront de douze mois
pour les brevets d'invention , et de quatre mois pour les dessins ou modles industriels, ainsi que pour les marques de fabrique o de commerce .

The International Convention of Vol. 25, p. 1374.
March 20 , 1883 , is modified as follows :
I. Article 3 of the Convention shall read as follows:
ART. 3. Are assimilated to the Rights of citizens of noncontracting
subjects or citizens of the con- StVatoels.. 25, p. 1375, tracting States, the subjects of amended. citizens of States not forming part of the union , who are domiciled or have bona fide industrial or com-
mercial establishments upon the territory of one of the States of the Union.
II. Article 4 shall read as follows :
ART. 4. Any one who shall have coRnitgrhacttsionfgpcroiuonrtirtiyeisn. regularly deposited an application for a patent of invention, of an industrial model, or design, of a Vol . 25, p. 1376,
amended. trade or commercial mark, in one of the contracting States , shall en-
joy for the purpose of making the deposit in the other States, and under reserve of the rights of third
parties, a right of priority during the periods hereinafter mentioned.
In consequence, the deposit subsequently made in one of the other States of the Union before the ex-
piration of these periods cannot be invalidated by acts performed in
the interval, especially by another deposit, by the publication of the invention or its working, by the sale of copies of the design or model, by the employment of the mark.
The periods of priority above amVeonld. ed25. , p. 1875, mentioned shall be twelve months
for patents of invention and four months for designs or industrial models, as well as for trade or commercial marks.

1940 ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY . DECEMBER 14 , 1900.

III. Il est insr dans la Con-

vention un article 4 bis ainsi

conu :

Patents applied for in different contract-

ART. 4 bis. -Les brevets de-

ing States.

mands dans les diffrents tats

contractants par des personnes admises au bnfice de la Conven-

tion aux termes des articles 2 et 3,

III. There is inserted in the Convention an article 4 bis, as follows:
ART. 4 bis. Patents applied for in the different contracting States by persons admitted to the benefit of the convention under the terms of articles 2 and 3 shall be inde-

seront indpendants des brevets

obtenus pour la mme invention dans les autres tats adhrents ou

non  l'Union.

Existing patents.

Cette disposition s'appliquera

aux brevets existants au moment

de sa mise en vigueur.

Patents existing at time of adhesion of

Il en sera de mme, en cas

new States.

d'accession de nouveaux tats,

pendent of the patents obtained for the same invention in the other States adherents or non-adherents to the Union.
This provision shall apply to patents existing at the time of its going into effect.
The same rule applies, in the case of adhesion of new States,

pour les brevets existant de part et d'autre au moment de l'accession.

to patents already existing on both sides at the time of the adhesion.

IV. Il est ajout  l'article 9

deux alinas ainsi conus :

Seizure of articles Dans les tats dont la lgislainfringing trade-

marks , etc.

tion n'admet pas la saisie  l'impor-

amVeenldded. , P. 1877, tation , cette saisie pourra tre

remplace par la prohibition d'im-

portation . Les autorits ne seront pas

IV. There are added to Article
9 two paragraphs, as follows : In the States whose legislation
does not admit of seizure on importation, such seizure may be replaced by prohibition of importation.
The authorities shall not be re-

Application.

tenues d'effectuer la saisie en cas de transit.
V.-L'article 10 aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 10. - Les dispositions de

quired to make the seizure in case of transit.
V. Article 10 shall read as follows:
ART. 10. The provisions of the

l'article prcdent seront applicables  tout produit portant faussement, comme indication de provenance , le nom d'une localit d-

preceding article shall be applicable to every production bearing falsely as indication of origin , the name of a stated locality when this

termine, lorsque cette indication

sera jointe  un nom commercial

fictif ou emprunt dans une inten-

tion frauduleuse.

Vol . 25, p. 1377, amended.

Est rput partie intresse tout

producteur, fabricant ou commer-

ant, engag dans la production,

la fabrication ou le commerce de

indication shall be joined to a fictitious commercial name or a name borrowed with fraudulent intention.
Is reputed interested party every producer, manufacturer, or trader engaged in the production, the manufacture, or the sale of this

ce produit, et tabli soit dans la localit faussement indique comme lieu de provenance, soit dans la rgion o cette localit est situe .
VI. Il est insr dans la Con-

production when established either in the locality falsely indicated as place of origin, or in the region where that locality is situated.
VI. There is inserted in the Con-

vention un article 10 bis ainsi
conu : Protection against ART. 10 bis. - Les ressortissants unfair competition.
de la Convention (art. 2 et 3) , joui-

vention an article 10 bis, as follows:
ART. 10 bis. Those entitled of right under the Convention (art. 2

ront, dans tous les Etats de l'Union , de la protection accorde aux nationaux contre la concurrence d-

and 3) , shall enjoy, in all the States
of the Union, the protection accorded to citizens or subjects

loyale.

against unfair competition.

ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY . DECEMBER 14, 1900. 1941

VII.-L'article 11 aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 11. - Les Hautes Parties contractantes accorderont, conformment  la lgislation de cha-

VII. Article 11 shall read as fol-
lows :
ART. 11. The high contracting Protection to inventions, etc., at exhibi-
parties shall accord conformably tions. Vol. 25, p. 1377 ,
to the legislation of each country amended

que pays, une protection tempo- a temporary protection to patentraire aux inventions brevetables, able inventions, to industrial de-

aux dessins ou modles industriels , ainsi qu'aux marques de fabrique ou de commerce, pour les produits qui figureront aux Expositions internationales officielles ou officiellement reconnues, organises sur le territoire de l'une d'elles .
VIII. L'article 14 aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 14. - La prsente Convention sera soumise  des revisions

signs , or models, as well as to trademarks for the productions which shall be shown at official or officially recognized International Expositions organized upon the territory of one of them.
VIII. Article 14 shall read as follows:
ART. 11. The present Convention shall be submitted to

Revision .

priodiques en vue d'y introduire les amliorations de nature  perfectionner le systme de l'Union.

periodical revision for the purpose of introducing improvements calculated to perfect the system of the Union .

A cet effet , des Confrences auront lieu successivement, dans l'un des tats contractants , entre les Dlgus desdits tats.
IX.-L'article 16 aura la teneur suivante :
ART. 16. - Les tats qui n'ont point pris part  la prsente Convention seront admis  y adhrer sur leur demande.
Cette adhsion sera notifie par

With this object conferences

shall take place successively in

one of the contracting States be-

tween the delegates

of said States .

Vol. 25, amended.

p.

1378,

IX. Article 16 shall read as fol-

lows :

ART. 16. The States that have Adhesion of nonsignatory States.
not taken part in the present con-

vention shall be admitted to adhere to the same upon their application.

This adhesion shall be notified

la voie diplomatique au Gouvernement de la Confdration suisse, et par celui-ci  tous les autres .

through the diplomatic channel to the Government of the Swiss Con-
federation and by the latter to all the others .

Elle emportera, de plein droit, accession  toutes les clauses et admission  tous les avantages
stipuls par la prsente Convention , et produira ses effets un mois aprs l'envoi de la notification faite par le Gouvernement suisse aux autres tats unionistes,  moins

It shall convey of full right, accession to all the clauses , and ad-
missionto all the advantages stipu-
lated by the present convention, Vol. 25, p. 1378,
and shall go into force a month amended. after the sending of the notification given by the Swiss Government to the other Unionist States , unless a

qu'une date postrieure n'ait t later date shall have been indicated

indique par l'tat adhrent.

by the adhering State.

ARTICLE 2 .

ARTICLE 2.

Le Protocole de clture annex
 la Convention internationale du
20 mars 1883 est complt par l'addition d'un numro 3 bis, ainsi conu :
3 bis. Le brevet, dans chaque
pays, ne pourra tre frapp de dchance pour cause de non-
exploitation qu'aprs un dlai minimum de trois ans ,  dater du

The Final Protocol annexed to
the International Convention of
March 20 , 1883, is completed by the addition of a number 3 bis, as follows :
ART. 3 bis. The patentee, in each Forfeiture for not working.
country , shall not suffer forfeiture because of non-working until after
a minimum period of three years, to date from the deposit of the

1942 ADDITIONAL ACT-INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY. DECEMBER 14, 1900.

Duration. Vol. 25, p. 1372. Ratification .
Effect. Signatures.

dpt de la demande dans le pays dont il s'agit, et dans le cas o le
brevet ne justifierait pas des causes de son inaction.

application in the country concerned , and in the case where the
patentee shall not justify the reasons of his inaction.

ARTICLE 3 .

ARTICLE 3.

Le prsent Acte additionnel aura mme valeur et dure que la Convention du 20 mars 1883.
Il sera ratifi, et les ratifications
en seront dposes  Bruxelles, au Ministre des Affaires trangres, aussitt que faire se pourra, et au plus tard dans le dlai de dix-huit mois  dater du jour de la signature .
Il entrera en vigueur trois mois aprs la clture du procs-verbal de dpt.
En Foi De Quoi les Plnipoten-
tiaires respectifs ont sign le prsent Acte additionnel.
Fait  Bruxelles , en un seul exemplaire, le 14 dcembre 1900.

The present Additional Act shall have the same force and duration as the Convention of March 20, 1883 .
It shall be ratified and the ratifications shall be deposited at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Brussels as soon as may be and at
the latest within the period of eighteen months dated from the day of signature .
It shall go into effect three months after the close of the record of deposit.
In witness whereof the respec-
tive Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Additional Act.
Done at Brussels , in a single copy, December 14, 1900 .

Pour la Belgique: Sign: A. NYSSENS. CAPELLE . 66 GEORGES DE RO . 66 J. DUBOIS.
Pour le Brsil : Sign: F. XAVIER DA CUNHA.
Pour le Danemark: Sign: H.HOLTENNIELSEN.
Pour la Rpublique Dominicaine:
Sign: JOHN W. HUNTER. Pour l'Espagne :
Sign: W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA.
Pour les tats-Unis d'Am-
rique: Sign : LAWRENCE TOWN-
SEND. 66
FRANCIS FORBES . 66
WALTER H. CHAMBERLIN.
Pour la France :
Sign: A. GRARD. C. NICOLAS.
66 MICHEL PELLETIER.
Por la Grande- Bretagne : Sign: CHARLES B. STUART WORTLEY . 66 H. G. BERGNE. 66 C. N. DALTON.

For Belgium : Signed: A. NYSSENS. CAPELLE. GEORGES DE RO. J. DUBOIS.
For Brazil: Signed: F. XAVIER DA CUNHA.
For Denmark: Signed: H. HOLTEN NIELSEN.
For the Dominican Republic: Signed : JOHN W. HUNTER.
For Spain: Signed: W. R. DE VILLA URRUTIA.
For the United States of America : Signed: LAWRENCE TOWNSEND. FRANCIS FORBES. WALTER H. CHAMBERLIN .
For France : Signed: A. GRARD. C. NICOLAS. MICHEL PELLETIER.
For Great Britain : Signed: CHARLES B. STU ART WORTLEY. H. C. BERGNE. C. N. DALTON.

ADDITIONAL ACT- INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY. DECEMBER 14, 1900. 1943

Pour l'Italie :

Sign: R. CANTAGALLI . C. F. GABBA.
66 S. OTTOLENGHI. Pour le Japon:

Sign : I. MOTONO. Pour la Norvge:

Sign: Cte WRANGEL. Pour les Pays - Bas :

Sign: SNYDER VAN WISSENKERKE .

Pour le Portugal : Sign: ERNESTO PINTO.
Pour la Serbie:

MADEIRA

Sign : Dr. MICHEL VOUTCH .
Pour la Sude :

Sign: Cte WRANGEL. Pour la Suisse :

Sign: JULES BOREL. 66 L. R. DE SALIS .
Pour la Tunisie :

Sign: A. GRARD . 66 TIENNE BLAD.

For Italy:
Signed : R. CANTAGALLI. C. F. GABBA . S. OTTOLENGHI.
For Japan : Signed: 1. MOTONO.
For Norway: Signed: Cte WRANGEL .
For the Netherlands :
Signed : SNYDER VAN WISSENKERKE .
For Portugal : Signed: ERNESTO MADEIRA PINTO .
For Servia : Signed: Dr. MICHEL VOUITCH .
For Sweden :
Signed : Cte WRANGEL. For Switzerland :
Signed: JULES BOREL. L. R. DE SALIS .
For Tunis: Signed: A. GRARD. TIENNE BLAD.

Certifi conforme : Bruxelles , le

7 Fvrier 1901 .

Le Secrtaire Gnral du Mi-

nistre des Affaires Etrangres de

Belgique ,

Bon LAMBERMONT.

Preamble. And whereas the said Additional Act was ratified by the Govern-

ment of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the

Senate thereof, and by the other signatory Governments with the

exception of those of Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Spain and
Servia, and the ratifications have been deposited with the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs at Brussels, as required by Article 3 of the Act ; Time of going into
And whereas it is agreed between the ratifying Governments that effect. the said Additional Act shall go into effect between them on Septem-
ber 14, 1902 , notwithstanding the non - ratification thereof by the four
signatory governments above mentioned , which have reserved the right
to ratify the same at a later date ; Proclamation.
Now therefore, be it know that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of
the United States of America, have caused the said Additional Act to

be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause

thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this twenty-fifth day of August in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two ,

[SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- seventh.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

1944

CONVENTION-GUATEMALA. AUGUST 27, 1901.

August 27, 1901.

Convention between the United States and Guatemala relating to the
tenure and disposition of real and personalproperty. Signed at Guatemala, August 27, 1901; ratification advised by the Senate, January 30, 1902; ratified by the President, February 6, 1902; ratified by Guatemala, September 12, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Guate mala, September 16, 1902; proclaimed, September 18, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and
the Republic of Guatemala, relating to the tenure and disposition of real and personal property, was concluded at the City of Guatemala on the 27th day of August, one thousand nine hundred and one, the original of which Convention, being in the English and Spanish languages, is word for word as follows:

Contracting parties. The United States of Amrica

and the Republic of Guatemala , desiring to improve the condition of the citizens of each of the re-

spective countries in relation to the tenure and disposition of real and personal property situated or being within the territories of the

other, as well as to authorize the representation of deceased persons by the Consuls of their respective nations in the settlement of estates,

have resolved to conclude a con-

Plenipotentiaries.

vention for those purposes and have named as their Plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United

States of Amrica the Honorable

W Godfrey Hunter, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America in Guatemala ; and

The President of Guatemala the Licentiate Juan Barrios M. , Secretary of State in the Department of Foreign Affairs,

Who having exchanged their said full powers , found in due and

Los Estados Unidos de Amrica
y la Repblica de Guatemala deseando mejorar la situacin de los ciudadanos de los respectivos pases con referencia  la posesin y disposicin de la propiedad inmueble y personal, situada  estante den-
tro de los territorios de la otra, como tambin autorizar la representacin de personas fallecidas, por medio de los Cnsules de sus respectivas naciones en el arreglo de testamentaras, han resuelto concluir una convencin para esos objetos, y han nombrado por sus Plenipotenciarios :
El Presidente de los Estados Unidos de Amrica al Honorable
seor don W Godfrey Hunter, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Amrica en Guatemala ; y
El Presidente de Guatemala al seor Licenciado don Juan Barrios M. , Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Relaciones Exteriores,
Quienes, habiendo canjeado sus dichos plenos poderes, hallados en

CONVENTION- GUATEMALA. AUGUST 27 , 1901 .

1945

proper form have agreed to and signed the following articles :

buena y debida forma , han convenido en los artculos siguientes que han firmado :

ARTICLE I.

ARTCULO I.

Where on the death of any per-
son holding real property (or property not personal) , within the territories of one of the Contracting Parties , such real property would, by the laws of the land, pass to a citizen of the other , were he not disqualified by the laws of the country where such real property is situated, such citizen shall be allowed a term of three years, in which to sell the same, this term
to be reasonably prolonged if circumstances render it necessary, and to withdraw the proceeds thereof, without restraint or interference, and exempt from any succession probate or administrative duties or charges other than those which may be imposed in like cases upon the citizens of the country from which such proceeds may be drawn.

Cuando  la muerte de cual- Three years allowed aliens to sell inherited
quier persona que tuviere bienes real property. inmuebles ( propiedades no personales) dentro de los territorios de una de las Partes Contratantes , dicha propiedad inmueble, por las leyes del pas, pasare  un ciudadano de la otra, si no estuviere l inhabilitado por las leyes del pas en donde est situada dicha propiedad inmueble,  eso ciudadano se les conceder un trmino de tres
aos para venderla, debiendo prolongarse razonablemente este trmino , si las circunstancias lo hicieren necesario, y sacar el producido de la venta, sin restricciones  in-
tervencin, y libre de cualesquiera. derechos  gabelas por sucesin , homologacin  administrativos, distintos de los que, en iguales casos , estn impuestos  los ciudadanos del pas de donde han de sacarse dichos producidos.

ARTICLE II.

ARTCULO II.

The citizens of each of the Con-
tracting Parties shall have full power to dispose of their personal property within the territories of the other, by testament, donation , or otherwise ; and their heirs, legatees , and donees, being citizens of the other Contracting Party, whether resident or non-resident, shall succeed to their said personal property, and may take possession thereof either by themselves or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their pleasure, paying such duties only as the citizens of the country where the property lies shall be liable to pay in like cases.

Los ciudadanos de cada una de soDniaslpposriotpieorntyo. f perlas Partes Contratantes tendrn plena facultad para disponer de sus propiedades personales que estn
dentro de los territorios de la otra, por testamento, donacin  de cualquier otro modo ; y sus herederos, legatarios y donatarios que sean ciudadanos de la otra Parte Contratante, ya residentes, ya no - residentes, sucedern  sus dichas
propiedades personales, y pueden tomar posesin de ellas, ya sea por s mismos, ya sea por medio de otros que obren  su nombre , y dispondrn de ellas  su placer, pagando nicamente los derechos que los ciudadanos del pas en donde est la propiedad, estn obligados  pagar en casos iguales.

ARTICLE III.

ARTCULO III.

In case of the death of any citizen of the United States of Amrica in Guatemala, or of any citizen
of Guatemala in the United States, without having in the country of

Notice to consul of En caso de muerte de cualquier death of citizen of one ciudadano de los Estados Unidos cotohuenrt.ry dying in the de Amrica en Guatemala,  de
cualquier ciudadano de Guatemala en los Estados Unidos , sin tener

1946

CONVENTION- GUATEMALA. AUGUST 27 , 1901 .

his decease any known heirs or testamentary executors by him appointed, the competent local authorities shall at once inform the nearest consular officer of the

Nation to which the deceased person belonged of the circumstance in order that the necessary information may be immediately forwarded to persons interested.

Consul to represent absent heirs.

The said consular officer shall

have the right to appear person-

ally or by delegate in all proceed-

ings on behalf of the absent heirs

or creditors, until they are other-

wise represented.

en el pas en que falleci herederos conocidos ,  ejecutores testamentarios , nombrados por l, las autoridades locales competentes. inmediatamente , informarn al ms
inmediato funcionario consular de la Nacin  que perteneci la la persona difunta, de lo ocurrido,  fin de que se dirija inmediatamente el necesario informe  las personas interesadas.
El dicho funcionario consular
tendr el derecho de comparecer personalmente  por delegado , en todas las tramitaciones,  nombre de los herederos  acreedores ausentes, hasta que stos estn representados de cualquier otra manera.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTCULO IV.

Duration.

The present Convention shall come into effect ten days after the day upon which the ratifications are exchanged, and shall remain in force for ten years after such exchange. In case neither of the Contracting Parties shall have given notice to the other, twelve months before the expiration of the said period of ten years, of the intention to terminate the present Convention, it shall remain in force until the expiration of one year from the day on which either of the High Contracting Parties shall have given such notice.

La presente convencin se pondr en vigor diez das despus de aquel en que se canjen las ratificaciones, y quedar en vigor por diez aos despus del canje . En el caso de que ninguna de las Partes Contratantes d noticia  la otra, doce meses antes de que expire el dicho perodo de diez aos, de la intencin de poner fin  la presente Convencin , sta continuar en vigor hasta que expire un ao  contar desde el da en que una  otra de las Altas Partes Contratantes haya dado dicho aviso .

Ratification. Signatures.

ARTICLE V.

ARTCULO V.

The present convention shall be duly ratified by the President of the United States, by and with
the approval of the Senate thereof, and by the President of Guatemala, by and with the approval of the National Legislative Assembly thereof, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in Washington or in Guatemala.
In faith whereof, we, the re-
spective Plenipotentiaries, have signed this Treaty and have hereunto affixed our seals .
Done in duplicate at Guatemala , this twenty seventh day of august, one thousand nine hundred and one .
W. GODFREY HUNTER [ SEAL . ]

La presente convencin ser ratificada en debida forma por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos. mediante la aprobacin de su Senado, y por el Presidente de Guatemala, mediante la aprobacin de la Asamblea Nacional Legislativa: y las ratificaciones sern canjeadas en Washington  en Guatemala.
En f de lo cual , nosotros los respectivos Plenipotenciarios , hemos firmado este Tratado y puesto en l nuestros sellos.
Hecho por duplicado en la ciudad de Guatemala, hoy veintisiete de agosto de mil novecientos uno .
JUAN BARRIOS M. [SEAL. ]

CONVENTION- GUATEMALA. AUGUST 27 , 1901 .

1947

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the
City of Guatemala on the 16th. day of September, one thousand nine hundred and two :

Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President

of the United States of America , have caused the said Convention to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this eighteenth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL . ]

two and of the Independence of the United States , the one hundred and twenty- seventh .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

Proclamation.

1948

PARCELS - POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30 , 1901.

November 30, 1901. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Bolivia.

Preamble.

For the purpose of making better postal arrangements between the Republic of Bolivia and the United States of America, the
undersigned, Federico Diez de Medina, Minister of Foreign Relations of Bolivia, and George H. Bridgman, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bolivia, by virtue of authority vested in them , have agreed upon the following articles for the establishment of a Parcels- Post System of exchanges between the two countries .

Con el objeto de establecer y celebrar convenios postales entre la Repblica de Bolivia y los Estados Unidos de Amrica, los infrascritos, Federico Diez de Medina, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de la Repblica de Bolivia, y George H. Bridgman , Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Amrica en Bolivia, en virtud de la autorizacion de que se hallan investidos , han convenido en los
siguientes artculos para establecer el cambio de encomiendas postales entre los dos pases.

ARTICLE I.

ARTCULO I.

Extent of conven-

tion.

The provisions of this Conven-

tion relate only to parcels of mail

matter to be exchanged by the sys-

tem herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements now exist-

ing under the Universal Postal Convention , which will continue as

heretofore ; and all the agreements

hereinafter contained apply exclu-

sively to mails exchanged under these Articles.

Las estipulaciones de esta Convencion se refieren unicamente  las encomiendas que se remitan de conformidad con el plan que en ella se establece , y en nada afectarn
los arreglos que ahora existen bajo la Convencion de la Union Postal
Universal, los cuales continuarn vijentes como hasta ahora ; aplicndose las estipulaciones contenidas en la presente Convencion exclusivamente  las balijas que se cambien conforme  estos artculos.

ARTICLE II.

ARTCULO II.

Articles admitted to 1. There shall be admitted to the mails.
the mails exchanged under this Convention , articles of merchandise and mail matter (except letters , post-cards, and written matter) of all kinds that are admitted under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, except that no packet may exceed eleven pounds ( or five kilograms) in weight, nor the following dimensions: greatest length in any direction , three feet six inches (or

1. Se admitirn en las balijas
que se cambien conforme  esta Convencion, mercancas y objetos de cualquiera gnero trasmisibles por el correo (excepto cartas, tarjetas postales y todo papel escrito,) que sean admitidos bajo cualquier condicion en el correo interno del pas de orgen , con tal que ningun paquete exceda de once libras (6 cinco kilgramos) de peso, ni de las dimensiones siguientes : mayor longitud en cualquiera direccion,

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901 .

1949

one hundred and five centimeters) ; greatest length and girth combined, six feet (or one hundred and eighty centimeters) ; and must be so wrapped or enclosed as to permit their contents to be easily examined by postmasters and customs officers ; and except that the following articles are prohibited admission to the mails exchanged under this Convention :
Publications which violate the copy- right laws of the country of destination ; poisons, and explosive or inflammable substances; fatty substances, liquids and those which easily liquefy, confections and pastes, live and dead animals , except dead insects and reptiles thoroughly dried ; fruits and vegetables which will easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad odor; lottery tickets , lottery advertisements or circulars ; all obscene or immoral articles ; articles which may destroy or in any way damage the mails, or injure the persons handling them.
2. Alladmissible articles of merchandise mailed in one country for the other, or received in one country from the other, shall be free from any detention or inspection whatever, except such as is required for collection of customs duties ; and shall be forwarded by the most speedy means to their destination, being subject in their transmission to the laws and regulations of each country respectively.
ARTICLE III .

tres pis seis pulgadas ( ciento cinco centmetros); longitud ma-

yor y circunferencia combinadas , seis pies ( ciento ochenta centmetros); debiendo estar envueltos 6 cubiertos de manera que per-

mitan que su contenido sea facilmente examinado por los administradores de correos y de aduanas ; y exceptundose, ademas, los artculos siguientes, cuya admision queda prohibida en las balijas que se cambien entre los dos pases , conforme  esta Convencion ,  saber:
Publicaciones que violen las leyes de propiedad literaria del

Articles prohibited .

pas de destino ; venenos y materias explosivas  inflamables; substancias grasosas, lquidas  de fcil

liquefaccion , dulces y pastas ; animales vivos  muertos , excepto

insectos y reptiles perfectamente disecados ; frutas y vegetales que puedan descomponerse facilmente, sustancias que exhalen mal olor ; billetes , anuncios  circulares de

lotera ; objetos obscenos  inmorales, artculos que puedan destruir  de alguna manera daar las bali-

jas,  causar perjuicio  las personas que los manejen.
2. Todas las mercancas admisi-

Freedom from in-

bles que se depositen en el correo spection.

de un pas con destino al otro ,  que se reciban en un pas procedentes

del otro, no estarn sujetas  otra detencion  inspeccion que  la que

fuere necesaria para cobrar los derechos aduaneros , despachndose  su destino por la va ms rpida y quedando sujetas en su trasmision  las leyes y reglamentos de cada pas respectivamente.

ARTCULO II.

1. A letter or communication of the nature of personal correspondence must not accompany, be written on , or enclosed with any parcel.
2. If such be found , the letter will be placed in the mails, if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached, the whole package will be rejected. If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination will collect double

1. Ninguna carta  comunicacion Letters must not ac company parcels.
que tenga el carcter de correspondencia personal , podr acom-
paar al paquete , ni estar escrita ni incluida en el.
2. Si se encontrare alguna carta, Rejection .
se la pondr en el correo , si pudiere ser separada, y si la comunicacion estuviere adherida de manera que no se puediera separarse , se rechazar el paquete entero . Sin
embargo, si alguna carta fuere enviada inadvertidamente, el pas

1950

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30 , 1901.

Address.

rates of postage according to the Universal Postal Union Convention .
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an address other than the one borne by the parcel itself. If such en-
closed packages be detected, they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct parcels-post rates .

de destino cobrar doble porte por ella, conforme  la Convencion Postal Universal.
3. Ningun paquete podr contener encomiendas con direccion
diferente de la que lleva la cubierta de aquel . Si se encontrasen tales
encomiendas, debern remitirse separadamente cobrando nuevo y distinto porte por cada uno de ellas .

Rates of postage. Delivery.

ARTICLE IV .

ARTCULO IV.

1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to be fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz:
2. In the Republic of Bolivia ; for a parcel not exceeding one pound for four hundred and sixty grams) in weight, fifty centavos , and for each additional one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams) or fraction thereof, fifty centavos ; and in the United States for a
parcel not exceeding one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams) in weight, twenty cents, and for each additional one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams) , or fraction thereof, twenty cents.
3. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the post offices of address in the country of destination, free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge
the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents (or ten centavos) for each parcel whatever its weight.

1. Se exijir, en todo caso, el
pago previo y total del porte en
estampillas del correo del pas de origin, como siguen:
2. En la Repblica de Bolivia ; por un paquete que no exceda del peso de una libra ( cuatrocientos sesenta gramos) y por cada libra adicional ( cuatro cientos sesenta gramos),  fraccion de este peso, cincuenta centavos de Boliviano; y en los Estados Unidos, por un paquete que no exceda del peso de
una libra ( cuatrocientos sesenta gramos), y por cada libra adicional
(6 cuatrocientos sesenta gramos adicionales),  fraccin de este peso, veinte centavos oro.
3. Los paquetes se entregarn sin demora  los destinatarios, en la oficina de correos  que fueren dirijidos, en el pas de su destino, libres de todo recargo por porte de correo ; pero el pas del destino puede imponer y cobrar  la persona  quien se dirija el paquete,
y en compensacion del servicio interior y de entrega, un recargo cuyo monto se fijara segun sus propios reglamentos, el que en ningun caso exceder de cinco centavos oro ( diez centavos de
Boliviano) por cada paquete, cualquiera que sea, su peso.

ARTICLE V.

ARTCULO V.

Receipt. Registry.

1. The sender will, at the time.
of mailing the parcel, receive from the post office where the parcel is mailed, a " certificate of mailing " on a form like Form I annexed hereto .
2. The sender of a parcel may have the same registered by paying, in addition to the postage, the registration fee required for regis-

1. Al depositar en el correo un paquete, se entregar al remitente un Certificado de Remision " de la oficina de correos que lo recibi, conforme al modelo anexo No. I.
2. El remitente de un paquete podr certificarlo, pagando, ademas del porte de correo, el valor de la certificacion que por artculos

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901.

1951

tered articles in the country of origin.
3. An acknowledgment of the delivery of a registered parcel shall be returned to the sender when requested; but either country may require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five cents or ten centavos.
4. The addressees of a registered parcel shall be advised of the arrival of the parcel by a notice from the post office of destination.

certificados se cobre en el pas de su orgen.
3. Se enviar al remitente cuan-
do as lo solicite, una constancia de la entrega hecha del paquete certificado; pero cada pas puede exigir del remitente el pago previo de un derecho por ese servicio , que no exceda de cinco centavos oro ( diez centavos de Boliviano).
4. La oficina de correos de destino dar aviso de la llegada del
paquete certificado  la persona  quien fuere dirigido .

Return receipt. Notice to addressee.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTCULO VI.

1. The sender of each parcel shall make a Customs Declaration, pasted upon or attached to the
parcel, upon a special Form provided for the purpose (See Form 2 annexed hereto) giving a general description of the parcel , its address, an accurate statement of the contents and value, date of mailing, and the sender's signature and place of residence.
2. The parcels in question shall be subject in the country of destination to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in that country for the protection of its Customs Revenues; and the
customs duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on
delivery, in accordance with the customs regulations of the country of destination ; but neither sender nor addressee shall be subject to the payment of any charge for fines or penalties on account of failure to comply with any customs regulation.

1.

El

remitente

de

cada

paquete

Customs tion.

har una declaracion aduanera que

se fijar  adherir sobre la cubier-

declara-

ta del mismo segun la frmula especial que se le suministrar para ese objeto , (Vase el modelo anexo No. 2) haciendo en ella el detalle general del paquete, una relacin exacta de su contenido, valor y

fecha del envo; y la firma y lugar de residencia del remitente .
2. Estos paquetes quedarn su

Collection of duties.

jetos  todos los reglamentos y derechos aduaneros que estuvieren vigentes en el pas de su destino

para resguardar las rentas de sus aduanas ; y los derechos aduaneros

que se deban por ellos sern cobrados al entregarse estos , de acuerdo con los reglamentos aduaneros del

pas de destino ; pero ni el remitente ni el destinatario podrn ser

obligados al pago de multas  penas por haber dejado de cumplir algun reglamento aduanero.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTCULO VII.

Each country shall retain to its
own use, the whole of the postages,registration and delivery fees, it collects on said parcels ; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

Cada pas percibir para si, el total del porte de correo, de los derechos de certificacion y de entrega que colecte sobre dichos paquetes ; y en consecuencia, esta Convencion no motivar cuentas separadas entre los dos pases.

Fees to be retained .

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTCULO VIII.

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States of America and

1. Los paquetes se considerarn como parte integrante de las balijas cambiadas directamente entre los Estados Unidos de Amrica y

Transportation.

1952

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30 , 1901 .

the Republic of Bolivia, to be la Repblica de Bolivia, y sern despatched to destination by the despachados  su destino por el

country of origin at its cost and by such means as it provides ; but must be forwarded , at the option of the despatching office, either in

pas de origen,  su costo y por los medios que el provea ; pero deben despacharse,  opcion de la oficina que los envie en cajas

boxes prepared expressly for the expresamente preparadas para el service, or in ordinary mail sacks servicio,  en balijas ordinarias de

marked " Parcels Post " and se- correspondencia que se marcarn : curely sealed with wax or other- " Encomiendas Postales " sellan-

wise as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.

dolos con la seguridad debida , con lacre ,  de la manera que se determine mutuamente por los regla-

Return of sacks, etc.

mentos respectivos.

2. Each country shall return

2. Cada pas devolver  la

empty to the despatching office by oficina de origen por el prximo next mail, all such boxes or sacks. correo, todas las cajas 6 balijas
recibidas.

Packing.

3. Although articles admitted

3. Aunque los paquetes admiti-

under this Convention, will be dos conforme  esta Convencion se

transmitted as aforesaid between trasmitirn en la forma designathe exchange offices , they should da , entre las oficinas de cambio,

be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the ordinary mails of either country, both in

debern empaquetarse cuidadosamente,  fin de que puedan trasmitirse con la debida seguridad en

Descriptive list.

going to the exchange office in the country of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.
4. Each despatch of a parcels-

los correos ordinarios de cualquiera de los dos pases tanto en su trnsito  la oficina de cambio en el pas de origen, como  la oficina de correo  donde se dirijen , en el pas de su destino .
4. Cada remision de encomien-

post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list in duplicate, of all the packages sent, showing distinctly the list number of each
parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the

das postales deber ser acompaarse en una lista descriptiva, hecha por duplicado, de todas las encomiendas que se envien, y que exprese claramente el nmero de lista de cada paquete , el nombre del remitente, el nombre y direccion del destinatario y el contenido y valor declarado , y deber in-

boxes or sacks of such despatch cluirse en una de las cajas  balijas

(See Form 3 , annexed hereto) .

de la misma remision. (Vase el

modelo anexo No. 3) .

ARTICLE IX .

ARTCULO IX.

Exchange offices.

Exchanges of mails under this Convention shall, until otherwise mutually agreed upon, be effected through the Exchange Post Offices at La Paz and New York, New Orleans, and San Francisco, under such regulations relative to the details of the exchange, as may be mutually determined to be essen-
tial to the security and expedition of the mails and the protection of the Customs Revenues.

El cambio de balijas conforme  esta Convencion , se verificar mientras no se acuerde otra cosa por las oficinas de correos la Paz y de Nueva York, Nueva Orleans y San Francisco, de conformidad con los reglamentos relativos  los detalles de cambio que por mtuo convenio se determinen y se con-
sideren como esenciales a la seguridad y expedicion en el envo de las balijas y al resguardo de los derechos aduaneros.

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901 .

1953

ARTICLE X.

ARTCULO X.

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the exchange office of destination, that office shall check the contents of the mail.
2. In the event of the Parcel Bill not having been received, a substitute should at once be prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on the Parcel Bill which may be discovered, should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected and noted for report to the despatching office on " Verification Certificate ," which should be sent in a special envelope .
4. If a parcel advised on the bill. be not received, after the nonreceipt has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill should be canceled and the fact likewise reported at once.
5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid, it must not be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the " Verification Certificate " Form .
6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars shall be reported in the same manner.
7. If no " Verification Certificate " or note of error be received, a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered, having been found on examination correct in all respects.

1. La oficina de correos del pas del destino , verificar el contenido de la balija, tan luego como la reciba .
2. En el caso de que no se recibiere la lista de los paquetes en-

Receipt of mail . Parcel bill.

viados por el correo, se har inmediatamente una que la sustituya.
3. Los errores que quedan haberse cometido y que se descubricren en la lista de los paquetes envia

Errors.

dos por el correo, deben anotarse y corregirse despues de haber sido

verificados por un segundo em pleado, y se comunicarn  la ofi cina remitente en el " Certificado

de Comprobacion ", que se de

enviar bajo cubierta especial.

4.

Si

no se recibiere

algun pa- Non-receipt of parcels.

quete de los consignados en la lista,

despues de confirmada la omision

por un segundo empleado , se cancelar la anotacion respectiva de la lista, y se informar de igual manera lo ocurrido.
5. Si apareciere un paquete insuficientemente franqueado, no deber cargarse la insuficiencia , pero se dar cuenta del hecho en

Insufficient postage.

el " Certificado de Comprobacion. "

6. Cuando se recibiere un pa-
quete averiado  en mal estado , se comunicarn en la misma manera detalles completos acerca de ello.
7. Si no se recibiere " Certifi-
cado de Comprobacion ",  aviso de error, se considerar que la balija de paquetes fu debidamente recibida y que habiendo sido examinada, se encontr exacta bajo todos aspectos.

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTCULO XI.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed, or is refused, it must be returned without charge , directly to the despatching office of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office of destination ; and the country of origin may collect from the sender for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed.
2. When the contents of a parcel which cannot be delivered are

1. Si no pudiere entregarse un Failure to deliver.

paquete  la persona  quien se

dirije ,  si esta rehusare recibirlo , se devolver directamente y sin

recargo,  la oficina que lo des-

pach,  la espiracion de treinta das contados desde su recibo , por la oficina de destino, y el pas de

orgen puede cobrar al remitente

por la devolucion del paquete , una

suma igual al porte que pag

cuando lo franque .

2.

Si el contenido de un paquete,

Disposal of perishable articles.

que fuere imposible entregar pu-

VOL XXXII , PT 2--46

1954

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30 , 1901 .

liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once, if necessary; or, if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality , for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one post office to the other.

diere deteriorarse  descomponerse podr destruirse inmediatamente, si esa medida fuere necesaria; 
si se pudiere, se vender, sin necesidad de aviso previo  de formalidad judicial, para beneficio de la persona interesada ; comunicandoselos detalles de la venta se comunicarn por una oficina de correos  la otra.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTCULO XII .

No responsibility for loss, etc.

The Post Office Department of

either of the contracting countries will not be responsible for the loss

or damage of any parcel. Conse-

quently, no indemnity can be claimed by the sender or addressee in either country.

El Departamento de Correos de
cada uno de los pases contratantes, no ser responsable por la prdida  averia que sufra algun paquete. Por consiguiente no podr reclamarse, por lo mismo, en ninguno de los dos pases, indemnizacion alguna por parte del remitente, ni de la persona  quien vaya dirigido.

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTCULO XIII.

Furtherregulations. 1. The Director General of
Posts of the Republic of Bolivia and the Postmaster General of the United States of America , may, by agreement, except, on account of insecurity in the conveyance, or for other causes, certain post offices in either country from receiving or despatching parcels of merchandise as provided by this Convention ; and shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and detail , as may be found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to time; and may by agreement prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article II of this Convention.
Bolivian jurisdic- 2. That Bolivia shall assume tion over parcels passitenrgritthorroyu. gh Peruvian jurisdiction and charge of all par-
cels between La Paz and Mollendo, i. e. while passing through Peruvian territory.

1. El Director general de Correos de la Repblica de Bolivia
y el Administrador general de Correos de los Estados Unidos de Amrica, pueden convenir en ex-
pueden ceptuar algunas oficinas postales de recibir  despachar paquetes de mercaderas, segun el presente Convenio, por falta de seguridad en la conduccion,  por otras
causas, y tendrn autoridad para hacer de comn acuerdo y de tiempo en tiempo, aquellos reglamentos de orden y detalle que crean necesarios para cumplir de-
bidamente las prescripciones de la presente Convencion , as como para establecer la admision en las balijas de cualquiera de los artculos prohibidos por el Artculo II de esta Convencion .
2. Que Bolivia asumir la jurisdiccion y cargo de todas las encomiendas postales entre La Paz y Mollendo y viceversa al paso por territorio peruano.

Duration, etc.

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTCULO XIV.

This Convention shall be ratified
by the contracting countries in accordance with their respective laws. Once ratified, it shall take effect, and operations thereunder

Esta Convencion se ratificar por los pases contratantes de acuerdo con sus respectivas leyes . Una vez ratificada, comenzar  tener efecto el da primero de Febrero

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901 .

1955

shall begin on the first day of February one thousand nine hundred
and two; and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months previous notice given to the other .
Done in duplicate, and signed at La Paz, Bolivia, this thirtieth day of November one thousand nine hundred and one.
[SEAL. ] [SEAL . ]

de mil novecientos dos y continuar en vigor hasta que se termine por consentimiento mtuo ; pero podr anularse , con la notificacion de uno de los Departamentos de Correos hecha al otro, con seis meses de anticipacion .
Hecho por duplicado y firmado en La Paz el da treinta de noviembre del ao mil novecientos uno.
GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN. FED. DIEZ DE MEDINA.

Signatures.

PROTOCOL.

[ Translation . ]

Reunidos en el despacho de Relaciones Exteriores Su Excelencia el Seor Federico Diez de Medina, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, y Su Excelencia el Seor George H. Bridgman, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Amrica, y teniendo en consideracin :
Primero:-Que la Convencin relativo
al cambio de encomiendas postales firmada en 24 de Abril del ao prosimo pasado, contiene varios errores de palabras que es indispensable corregir,  fin de evitar dificultades en la prctica y.
Segundo:-Que no afectando de modo alguno dichos errores al fondo de la Convencion mencionada, no es necesario una segunda aprobacin legislativa.
En consequencia, los respectivos Plenipotenciarios han convenido en reproducir con las precisas correcciones la Convencion sobre Encomiendas Postales de fecha 24 de Abril de 1900, suscribiendola de neuvo .
En f de lo cual, se firma por duplicado el presente acuerdo, en la ciudad de La Paz,  los 30 das del mes de Noviembre del ao de mil novecientos uno.
[SEAL. ] FEDERICO DIEZ DE MEDINA. [SEAL. ] GEORGE H. BRIDGMAN.

Being assembled in the office of foreign relations, His Excellency Dr. Federico Diez de Medina, minister of foreign relations, and His Excellency Dr. George H. Bridgman , envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the United States of America, and taking into consideration :
First. Thatthe convention relative to the
exchange of postal parcels signed on the twenty-fourth day of April last year contains several errors in the wording which it is necessary to correct in order to avoid difficulties when put into practice ; and
Secondly. As said errors do not affect the fundamental meaning of aforesaid convention, there is no necessity ofobtaining again the approval of the legislature.
For these reasons, the respective plenipotentiaries have agreed to reproduce the Parcels-Post Convention of the twentyfourth of April, 1900, with the necessary corrections, signing it anew.
In virtue of which the present agree-
ment is signed in duplicate, in the city of La Paz, this thirtieth day of the month of November, ofthe year one thousand nine hundred and one.

Having examined and considered the provisions of the aforegoing UnRiatteidfiSctaattieosn. by the Parcels-Post Convention between the United States of America and
the Republic of Bolivia, which was signed in duplicate at La Paz, Bolivia, on the thirtieth day of November, A. D. 1901 , on behalf of the United States by George A. Bridgman, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bolivia, and on behalf of Bolivia by Federico Diez de Medina , minister of foreign relations of Bolivia, the same is by me, by virtue of the powers
vested by law in the Postmaster- General, hereby ratified , by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States.

In witness whereof I have signed the same and caused the seal of the

Post- Office Department of the United States to be hereto affixed .

Done at Washington this ninth day of January , A. D. 1902 .

[SEAL. ]

CH. EMORY SMITH ,

Postmaster- General.

1956

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901.

Approval by United

States.

I hereby approve the aforegoing convention , and in testimony thereof

have caused the seal of the United States to be hereto affixed .

[ SEAL OF THE UNITED STATES . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President : JOHN HAY, Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, January 9, 1902.

Approval by Bolivia.

Jos Manuel Pando, Presidente Constitucional de la Repblica : Por cuanto el Congreso Nacional ha sancionado la siguiente ley : El Congreso Nacional Decreta:

ARTCULO 1. Se aprueba la Convencin Postal, para el cambio de

encomiendas, que con fecha 24 de Abril del corriente ao, se ha firmado en la ciudad de La Paz entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores Dr. Eliodoro Villazn y el Enviado Extraordinario yv Ministro Plenipotenciario de la Repblica de los E. E. U. U. de Norte Amrica,
George H. Bridgman. ARTCULO 2 . El Poder Ejecutivo proceder  canjear las ratifica-
ciones .

Comunquese al Poder Ejecutivo, para los fines que prescribe la Constitucin Poltica del Estado .

Sala de sesiones del Congreso Nacional en la ciudad de La Paz,  8 de Noviembre de 1900 .

[ FIRMADO. ] FIRMADO . FIRMADO .

ANIBAL CAPRILES. JUAN MAL BALCZAR. GABRIEL VALVERDE C. ,
S. Set .

[ FIRMADO. ] [FIRMADO. ]

ANGEL DIEZ DE MEDINA, Depto. Secrto
MANUEL M SAAVEDRA, Dip. Srio.

Portanto, la promulgo para que se tenga y cumpla como ley de la

Repblica. La Paz, Noviembre 13 de 1900 .

[FIRMADO. ] FIRMADO .

JOS MANUEL PANDO. ELIODORO VILLAZN.

Oficialia Mayor de Relaciones Exteriores : Es conforme :

JOS SALMAS .

[Translation .]
Jos Manuel Pando, Constitutional President of the Republic: Inasmuch as the National Congress has sanctioned the following law : The National Congress decrees: ARTICLE 1. The Postal Convention for the exchange of postal parcels, which was signed on the 24th of April of the current year, in the city of La Paz, by the minister of foreign affairs, Dr. Eliodoro Villazn, and the envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of the Republic of the United States of North America, George H. Bridgman, is approved. ARTICLE 2. The executive power will proceed to exchange the ratifications. To be communicated to the executive power for the purposes prescribed by the political constitution of the State.
Hall of sessions of the National Congress, in the city of La Paz, the 8th of November, 1900.

[Here follow signatures. ]

I, therefore, promulgate the same in order that it may be held and observed as a law of the Republic.

La Paz, November 13, 1900.

JOS MANUEL PANDO.

ELIODORO VILLAZN.

Attested :

Chief clerk of foreign relations. JOS SALMAS.

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION - BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30, 1901 .

1957

FORM NO. 1 .

Form No. 1.

Parcels-Post.

A parcel addressed as under has been posted here to-day.

Office stamp .

This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel , and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postmaster General.

FORM NO. 2. Parcels-post between the United States and Bolivia.

Form No. 2.

Date. Stamp.

FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Place to which
the parcel is addressed.

Description of parcel: [State whether box,
bag, basket, etc.]

Contents.

Total Value. Per cent. customs
charges.

Total..

Date of posting:..

18 ....; signature and address of sender { -

For use of Post- Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange:

Parcel Bill No .... ..; No. of rates prepaid ......

Entry No .....

1958 Form No. 3.

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BOLIVIA. NOVEMBER 30 , 1901. FORM 3.

Date stamp of the United States Post- Office .

Date stamp of the

Parcels from the United States for the Republic of

Bolivia

Bolivia.

Post -Office .

Parcel Bill No ......dated ......18 .. ; per S. S.

* Sheet No ......

Origin of Name of ad- Address of parcel. Declared Declared

parcel. dressee.

contents. value.

Remarks.

NEon.try roNafutemsber
.prepaid

Totals.... S
When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail, it will be sufficient if the undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the Parcel Bill.
168. Total number of parcels sent by the mail * Total weight of mail .....

* Number of boxes or other receptacles form- * Deduct weight of receptacles .....

ing the mail.....

Signature of dispatching officer at United * Net weight of parcels

States Post-Office....

Signature of receiving officer at Bolivia Post Office:

TREATY- GREAT BRITAIN. MAY 31 , 1902.

1959

Treaty between the United States and Great Britain concerning the establishment ofimport duties in Zanzibar. Signed at Washington May 31, 1902; ratification with amendment advised by the Senate June 30, 1902; ratified by the President July 22, 1902; ratified by Great Britain August 27, 1902; ratifications exchanged at Washington October 17, 1902; proclaimed October 17, 1902.

May 31 , 1902.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

To all to whom these Presents shall come, Greeting: Know Ye, that whereas a Convention between the United States of Preamble.

America and Great Britain , concerning the establishment of import duties in that portion of the Dominions of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which is under the protection of Great Britain, was concluded at Washington on the 31st. of May, one thousand, nine hundred
and two, the original of which Convention is , as amended by the Senate of the United States , word for word as follows :
The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, acting in the name of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar, have, for the purposes hereinafter stated, appointed their respective Plenipotentiaries, namely:
The President of the United States of America, the Honorable John
Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of America ; and His Britannic Majesty , Arthur Stewart Raikes , Esquire , His Brit-
annic Majesty's Charg d'Affaires, Who , after having communicated each to the other their respective
full powers in good and due form, have agreed upon the following Articles :
ARTICLE I.

Contracting powers. Plenipotentiaries.

Recognizing that it is just and necessary to facilitate to that portion obUjneictteiodnSttoatceosllweacitvieosn of the dominions of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which is of duties in Zanziba " . under the protection of Great Britain, and which is situated in the

basin of the Congo , as defined by the General Act of the African Con-

ference at Berlin of February 26th, 1885 , the accomplishment of the obligations which it has contracted by virtue of the General Act of
Brussels of July 2nd , 1890 , the United States waives any objection on

Vol. 27, p. 886.

its part to the collection of import duties upon merchandise imported into that Protectorate.
Rates of duties durThe tariff of these duties, as provided in the Declaration of Brussels ing fifteen years bearing the same date as the said General Act of Brussels, for the
period of fifteen years next ensuing from that date, is not to exceed

ten per centum of the value of the merchandise at the port of importation, except for spirits and for firearms and ammunition, which are

regulated by the General Act of Brussels . Rate at expiration
At the expiration of the said period of fifteen years, and in default offifteen years.
of a new agreement, the United States will , with respect to this sub-

ject, be restored to the relations with the said Protectorate which

existed prior to the Conclusion of this Convention, the right to impose

1960

TREATY GREAT BRITAIN. MAY 31 , 1902.

thereafter import duties to a maximum of ten per centum upon mer-
chandise imported into the said Protectorate remaining acquired to the latter so long only as it shall continue to comply with the conditions and limitations stated in this Convention.

ARTICLE II .

Rights as to import duties.

The United States shall enjoy in the said Protectorate as to import

duties all the advantages accorded to the most favored nation.

Neither differential treatment nor transit duty shall be established

in said Protectorate.

In the application of the tariff rgime of the said Protectorate, the formalities and operations of commerce shall be simplified and facilitated so far as possible.

ARTICLE III .

United States accorded rights, etc., of

Considering the fact that in Article I of this Convention the United

most favored nation. States has given its assent under certain conditions to the establishment

of import duties in that portion of the Dominions of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which is under the protection of Great Britain, it is well understood that the said Protectorate assures to the flag, to the vessels, to the commerce, and to the citizens and inhabitants of the

United States, in all parts of the territory of that Protectorate, all the

rights, privileges and immunities concerning import and export duties,

tariff rgime, interior taxes and charges and, in a general manner, all

commercial interests, which are or shall be accorded to the signatory

Powers of the Act of Berlin, or to the most favored nation .

Exchange of ratifications.

This Convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall be

exchanged at Washington as soon as may be and within twelve months

from the date hereof.

Signatures.

Done in duplicate at Washington this thirty- first day of May , in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two.

JOHN HAY

[ SEAL. ]

ARTHUR S RAIKES [ SEAL. ]

Ratification . Proclamation.

And whereas the Convention has been duly ratified, as amended, on both parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in the city of Washington on the 17th. day of October, one thousand, nine hundred and two:

Now, therefore , be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United States of America , have caused the said Convention, as

amended, to be made public to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, this seventeenth day of October in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and two

[ SEAL ] and of the Independence of the United States, the one hundred and twenty-seventh.

By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 24, 1903.

1961

Convention between the United States and Great Britain providing for the settlement of questions between the two countries with respect to the boundary line between the territory of Alaska and the British possessions in North America. Signed at Washington January 24, 1903; ratification advised by the Senate February 11, 1903; ratified by the President February 24, 1903; ratified by Great Britain February 16, 1903; ratifications exchanged at Washington March 3, 1903; proclaimed March 3, 1903.

January 24, 1903.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION . Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and Preamble.

Great Britain providing for the settlement of questions between the two countries with respect to the boundary line between the territory of Alaska and the British possessions in North America, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington , on the twenty- fourth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and three, the original of which Convention is word for word as follows :
The United States of America and His Majesty Edward the Seventh, of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, King, and Emperor of India, equally desirous for the friendly and final adjustment of the differences which exist between them in respect to the true meaning and application of certain clauses of the convention between Great Britain and Russia , signed under date of February 28 16 , A. D. 1825 , which clauses relate to the delimitation of the boundary line between the territory of Alaska, now a possession of the United States, and the British possessions in North America, have resolved to provide for the submission of the questions as hereinafter stated to a tribunal, and to that end have appointed their respective plenipotentiaries as follows :
The President of the United States of America, John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States ; and
His Britannic Majesty, The Right Honorable Sir Michael H. Herbert, K. C. M. G. , C. B. , His Britannic Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ;
Who , after an exchange of their full powers which were found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

Contracting parties. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I.
Alaskan Boundary A tribunal shall be immediately appointed to consider and decide Tribunal. the questions set forth in Article IV of this convention . The tribunal shall consist of six impartial jurists of repute who shall consider judicially the questions submitted to them, each of whom shall first subscribe an oath that he will impartially consider the arguments and evidence presented to the tribunal and will decide thereupon according to his true judgment. Three members of the tribunal shall be Appointment.

1962

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 24 , 1903.

appointed by the President of the United States, and three by His

Britannic Majesty. All questions considered by the tribunal, includ-

ing the final award, shall be decided by a majority of all the members thereof.

Substitution.

In case of the refusal to act, or of the death, incapacity or absten-

tion from service of any of the persons so appointed, another impar-

tial jurist of repute shall be forthwith appointed in his place by the

same authority which appointed his predecessor.

Secretary, bailiff, The tribunal may appoint a secretary and a bailiff to perform such etc.
duties as they may prescribe, and may employ scientific experts if

Record . Compensation.

found to be necessary, and may fix a reasonable compensation for such officers . The tribunal shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
Each of the High Contracting Parties shall make compensation for

the services of the members of the tribunal of its own appointment

and of any agent, counsel, or other person employed in its behalf,

Expenses.

and shall pay all costs incurred in the preparation of its case. All expenses reasonably incurred by the tribunal in the performance

Regulations.

of its duties shall be paid by the respective governments in equal moieties.
The tribunal may, subject to the provisions of this convention, establish all proper rules for the regulation of its proceedings.

ARTICLE II.

Agent.

Each of the High Contracting Parties shall also name one person to attend the tribunal as its agent.

Written or printed The written or printed case of each of the two parties, accompanied case to be submitted.
by the documents , the official correspondence and all other evidence
in writing or print on which each party relies, shall be delivered in

duplicate to each member of the tribunal and to the agent of the other party as soon as may be after the organization of the tribunal, but

within a period not exceeding two months from the date of the exchange of ratifications of this convention. Counter case to be Within two months after the delivery on both sides of the written submitted . or printed case, either party may, in like manner, deliver in duplicate to each member of the tribunal, and to the agent of the other party, a counter-case and additional documents, correspondence and evidence.

in reply to the case, documents, correspondence and evidence so presented by the other party. The tribunal may, however, extend this

last mentioned period when in their judgment it becomes necessary by reason of specal difficulties which may arise in the procuring of such

additional papers and evidence.

Copies of reports, etc.

If in the case submitted to the tribunal either party shall have speci-

fied or referred to any report or document in its own exclusive pos-

session without annexing a copy, such party shall be bound , if the other party shall demand it , within thirty days after the delivery of

the case, to furnish to the party applying for it a duly certified copy

thereof; and either party may call upon the other, through the tribunal, to produce the original or certified copies of any papers adduced as evidence, giving in each instance such reasonable notice as the tri-

bunal may require ; and the original or copy so requested shall be

Evidence, etc.

delivered as soon as may be and within a period not exceeding forty days after receipt of notice.
Each party may present to the tribunal all pertinent evidence, docu-

mentary, historical, geographical, or topographical, including maps and charts, in its possession or control and applicable to the rightful

decision of the questions submitted ; and if it appears to the tribunal that there is evidence pertinent to the case in the possession of either party, and which has not been produced , the tribunal may in its dis-

CONVENTION- GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 24, 1903.

1963

cretion order the production of the same by the party having control thereof.
It shall be the duty of each party through its agent or counsel, within two months from the expiration of the time limited for the delivery of the counter-case on both sides, to deliver in duplicate to each member of the said tribunal and to the agent of the other party a written or printed argument showing the points and referring to the evidence upon which his Government relies, and either party may also support the same before the tribunal by oral argument of counsel. The tribunal may, if they shall deem further elucidation with
regard to any point necessary, require from either party a written, printed, or oral statement or argument upon the point; but in such case the other party shall have the right to reply thereto .

Arguments.

ARTICLE III.

It is agreed by the High Contracting Parties that the tribunal shall ,beFocornmseirderterdea.ties to consider in the settlement of the questions submitted to its decision

the Treaties respectively concluded between His Britannic Majesty and the Emperor of All the Russias under date of 28/16 February, A. D. 1825, and between the United States of America and the Emperor of All the Russias concluded under date of March 30/18 , A. D.

Vol. 15, p. 539.

1867; and particularly the Articles III , IV, V, of the first mentioned
treaty, which in the original text are word for word as follows : "La ligne de dmarcation entre les Possessions des Hautes Parties

Boundaries.

Contractantes sur la Cte du Continent et les Iles de l'Amrique NordOuest, sera trace ainsi qu'il suit :
"A partir du Point le plus mridional de l'Ile dite Prince of Wales, lequel Point se trouve sous la parallle du 54me degr 40 minutes de latitude Nord, et entre le 131me et 133me degr de longitude Ouest (Mridien de Greenwich) , la dite ligne remontera au Nord le long de la passe dite Portland Channel, jusqu'au Point de la terre ferme o elle atteint le 56me degr latitude Nord ; de ce dernier point la ligne de dmarcation suivra la crte des montagnes situes paralllement 
la Cte, jusqu'au point d'intersection du 141me degr de longitude Ouest (mme Mridien) ; et finalement, du dit point d'intersection , la mme ligne mridienne du 141me degr formera, dans son prolongement jusqu' la Mer Glaciale, la limite entre les Possessions Russes et Britanniques sur le Continent de l'Amrique Nord-Ouest. "

IV.

" Il est entendu , par rapport  la ligne de dmarcation dtermine dans l'Article prcdent ;
"1. Que l'Isle dite Prince of Wales appartiendra toute entire  la Russie.
"2. Que partoute o la crte des montagnes qui s'tendent dans une direction parallle  la Cte depuis le 56me degr de latitude Nord au point d'intersection du 141me degr de longitude Ouest, se trouveroit  la distance de plus de dix lieues marines de l'Ocan, la limite entre les Possessions Britanniques et la lisire de Cte mentionne ci - dessus comme devant appartenir  la Russie , sera forme par une ligne parallle aux sinuosits de la Cte, et qui ne pourra jamais en tre loigne que de dix lieues marines. "
V.

" Il est convenu en outre, que nul Etablissement ne sera form par l'une des deux Parties dans les limites que les deux Articles prcdens assignent aux Possessions de l'Autre . En consquence, les Sujets Bri-

1964

CONVENTION- GREAT BRITAIN. JANUARY 24, 1903 .

tanniques ne formeront aucun Etablissement soit sur la Cte , soit sur la lisire de terre ferme comprise dans les limites des Possessions Russes , telles qu'elles sont dsignes dans les deux Articles prcdens ; et, de mme, nul Etablissement ne sera form par des Sujets Russes au del des dtes limites. "
The tribunal shall also take into consideration any action of the several governments or of their respective representatives preliminary or subsequent to the conclusion of said treaties so far as the same tends to show the original and effective understanding of the parties in respect to the limits of their several territorial jurisdictions under and by virtue of the provisions of said treaties.

ARTICLE IV .

Questions to be de-

cided .

Referring to Articles III , IV, and V of the said treaty of 1825 the

said tribunal shall answer and decide the following questions :-

1. What is intended as the point of commencement of the line? 2. What channel is the Portland Channel ?

3. What course should the line take from the point of commencement to the entrance to Portland Channel ?

4. To what point on the 56th parallel is the line to be drawn from the head of the Portland Channel , and what course should it follow between these points ?

5. In extending the line of demarcation northward from said point on the parallel of the 56th degree of North latitude , following the crest

of the mountains situated parallel to the coast until its intersection with the 141st degree of longitude west of Greenwich, subject to the condition that if such line should anywhere exceed the distance of ten

marine leagues from the ocean then the boundary between the British and the Russian territory should be formed by a line parallel to the sinuosities of the coast and distant therefrom not more than ten marine

leagues, was it the intention and meaning of said convention of 1825 that there should remain in the exclusive possession of Russia a con-

tinuous fringe or strip of coast on the mainland, not exceeding ten marine leagues in width, separating the British Possessions from the bays, ports, inlets , havens, and waters of the ocean, and extending from the said point on the 56th degree of latitude north to a point where such line of demarcation should intersect the 141st degree of longitude west of the Meridian of Greenwich ?
6. If the foregoing question should be answered in the negative , and in the event of the summit of such mountains proving to be in places more than ten marine leagues from the coast , should the width of the lisire which was to belong to Russia be measured (1) from the mainland coast of the ocean, strictly so- called , along a line perpendicular thereto, or (2) was it the intention and meaning of the said convention that where the mainland coast is indented by deep inlets forming part of the territorial waters of Russia, the width of the lisire was to be

measured (a) from the line of the general direction of the mainland

coast, or (b) from the line separating the waters of the ocean from the territorial waters of Russia , or (c) from the heads of the aforesaid inlets ?

7. What, if any exist, are the mountains referred to as situated parallel to the coast, which mountains, when within ten marine leagues from the coast , are declared to form the eastern boundary ?

ARTICLE V.

Meeting of tribunal. The tribunal shall assemble for their first meeting at London as soon as practicable after receiving their commissions ; and shall themselves fix the times and places of all subsequent meetings.

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN . JANUARY 24, 1903.

1965

The decision of the tribunal shall be made so soon as possible after Decision.

the conclusion of the arguments in the case, and within three months thereafter, unless the President of the United States and His Britannic
Majesty shall by common accord extend the time therefor. The decision shall be made in writing, and dated , and shall be signed by the members of the tribunal assenting to the same. It shall be signed in
duplicate, one copy whereof shall be given to the agent of the United States of America for his government, and the other to the agent of His Britannic Majesty for his government.

Signed in duplicate.

ARTICLE VI .

When the High Contracting Parties shall have received the decision boEuxnpdearrtys toinestacbloins-h of the tribunal upon the questions submitted as provided in the fore- formity with decision . going articles, which decision shall be final and binding upon all parties ,

they will at once appoint, each on its own behalf, one or more scientific

experts who shall with all convenient speed proceed together to lay
down the boundary line, in conformity with such decision . Should there be, unfortunately, a failure by a majority of the tri- agRreepeo. rt of failure to
bunal to agree upon any of the points submitted for their decision , it

shall be their duty to so report in writing to the respective governments through their respective agents . Should there be an agreement by a majority upon a part of the questions submitted , it shall be their

Partial agreement.

duty to sign and report their decision upon the points of such agreement in the manner hereinbefore prescribed .

ARTICLE VII.

The present Convention shall be ratified by the President of the

United States , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and by His Britannic Majesty, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in Washington or in London so soon as the same may be effected.
In faith whereof we , the respective plenipotentiaries, have signed this Convention and have hereunto affixed our Seals.

Done at Washington , in duplicate, this 24th day of January, A. D.

1903 .

JOHN HAY

[ SEAL. ]

MICHAEL H. HERBERT [SEAL . ]

Ratification. Signatures.

Exchange of ratifi And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both cations.

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Washington , on the third day of March, one thousand nine hundred and three;
Now, therefore, be it known that I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention

Proclamation.

to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this third day of March, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and three , and

[SEAL ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-seventh.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .
1967

PROCLAMATIONS .

[No. 1. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 3, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, the Washington Forest Reserve , in the State of Washington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, under and by virtue of section
twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled , " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof":

Preamble. Vol. 29, p. 896.

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress , approved Vol . 30, p . 36.

June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety -seven , entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating suca reserve "; Washington Forest
Now, therefore , I, William McKinley, President of the United Reserve. Land restored to
States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of public domain.
Congress , approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven .

do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby withdrawn

and excluded from the aforesaid Washington Forest Reserve and restored to the public domain all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels

of land particularly described as follows, to wit :

The south-west quarter of Section three (3) , Sections four (4) and five (5), the east half of Section nine (9) , the west half of Section ten

(10), the south half of Section thirteen (13) , the south half of Section

fourteen (14), Section fifteen (15) , the north half and the south - east quar-

ter of Section twenty-three (23), Sections twenty-four (24), twenty-five

(25) and thirty-six (36) , all in Township thirty -five ( 35 ) North, Range twenty (20) East, Willamette Meridian; what will be when surveyed

the south half of Township thirty - two (32) North, Range twenty-one

(21 ) East; what will be when surveyed the north half of Township thirty-three (33) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; Townships

thirty-four (34) and thirty-five (35 ) North, Range twenty-one (21)

East; Townships thirty-one (31 ) to thirty-four (34) , both inclusive ,

VOL XXXII , PT 2--47

1969

1970

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 1 , 2.

Range twenty-two (22) East ; what will be when surveyed Sections

thirty (30) , thirty-one (31) and thirty-two (32) of Township thirty-five

(35) North, Range twenty-two (22) East .

Subject to entry, etc. , 90 days after

That the lands hereby restored to the public domain shall be open

notice.

to settlement from date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing

or selection until after ninety days notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the

seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this third day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and one, and of the
[ SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-fifth.
WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

April 16, 1901.

[No. 2. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas, by Executive Order dated December 27 , 1875 , Sections

8 and 9, township 15 south, range 2 east , San Bernardino Meridian, California, were with certain other tracts of land withdrawn from the

Vol. 26, p. 712.

public domain and reserved for the use of the Capitan Grande band or Village of Mission Indians; and
Whereas, the Commission appointed under the provisions of the Act of Congress approved January 12, 1891 , entitled " An act for the relief of the Mission Indians in the State of California", (U. S. Stat-

utes at Large , vol . 26, page 712) selected for the said Capitan Grande band or village of Indians certain tracts of land and intentionally omitted and excluded from such selection the said sections 8 and 9,

township 15 south, range 2 east, and reported that the tracts thus

omitted included the lands upon which were found the claims of Arthur F. Head and others ; and

Whereas, the report and recommendations of the said Commission were approved by Executive Order dated December 29, 1891 , which

Order also directed that " All of the lands mentioned in said report are hereby withdrawn from settlement and entry until patents shall have issued for said selected reservations and until the recommendations of

said Commission shall be fully executed , and, by the proclamation of the President of the United States, the lands or any part thereof shall

be restored to the public domain " ; and Whereas, a patent was issued March 10, 1894 , to the said Indians for

the lands selected by the Commission as aforesaid and which patent also excluded the said Sections 8 and 9, township 15 south, range 2 east; and

Whereas it appears that the said Arthur F. Head can not make the

requisite filings on the land occupied by him until it shall have been

formally restored to the public domain, and that no good reason appears

to exist for the further reservation of the said sections for the said

band of Indians ;

Land in California

restored to public do- Now, therefore, I , William McKinley, President of the United

main.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested, do hereby declare and

make known that the Executive Orders dated December 27, 1875 and

December 29, 1891 , are so far modified as to except from their provi- .

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos . 2, 3.

sions Sections 8 and 9 of township 15 south , range 2 east, San Bernardino meridian, and the said sections are hereby restored to the public domain .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of April in the year of our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and one, and of
[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-fifth .

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President: JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

1971

[No. 3. ] PROCLAMATION.

June 25, 1901.

Whereas the act of Congress entitled " An Act to ratify and confirm an agreement with the Muscogee or Creek tribe of Indians and for
other purposes , " approved on the first day of March, nineteen hun-
dred and one, contains a provision as follows:
That the agreement negotiated between the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes and the Muscogee or Creek tribe of Indians, at the City of Washington on the eighth day of March, nineteen hundred, as herein amended , is hereby accepted , ratified, and confirmed, and the same shall be of full force and effect when ratified by the Creek national council. The principal chief, as soon as practicable after the ratification of this agreement by Congress, shall call an extra session of the Creek national council and lay before it this agreement and the Act of Congress ratifying it, and if the agreement be ratified by said council, as provided in the constitution of said nation, he shall transmit to the President of the United States the act of council ratifying the agreement, and the President of the United States shall thereupon issue his proclamation declaring the same duly ratified, and that all the provisions of this agreement have become law according to the terms thereof: Provided, That such ratification by the Creek national council shall be made within ninety days from the approval of this Act by the President of the United States,

Preamble. Vol. 31, p. 861.

And whereas the principal chief of the said tribe has transmitted to me an act of the Creek national council entitled " An act to ratify and confirm an agreement between the United States and the Muscogee Nation of Indians of the Indian Territory " approved the twenty- fifth day of May, nineteen hundred and one, which contains a provision as follows:

That said Agreement, amended, ratified and confirmed by the Congress of the United States, as set forth in said Act of Congress approved March 1 , 1901 , is hereby accepted, ratified and confirmed on the part of the Muscogee Nation and on the part of the Muscogee or Creek tribe of Indians constituting said Nation , as provided in said Act of Congress and as provided in the Constitution of said Nation, and the Principal Chief is hereby authorized to transmit this Act of the National Council ratifying said Agreement to the President of the United States as provided in said Act of Congress.

And whereas paragraph thirty-six of said agreement contains a provision as follows :

This provision shall not take effect until after it shall have been separately and specifically approved by the Creek national council and by the Seminole general council ; and if not approved by either, it shall fail altogether, and be eliminated from this agreement without impairing any other of its provisions.

And whereas there has been presented to me an act of the Creek national council entitled " An Act to disapprove certain provisions, relating to Seminole citizens, in the agreement between the Muscogee Nation and the United States, ratified by Congress March 1 , 1901 , "

1972

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 3, 4.

approved the twenty-fifth day of May, nineteen hundred and one, by
which the provisions of said paragraph thirty-six are specifically
disapproved : Agreement with Creek Indians ratified. Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United
States , do hereby declare said agreement, except paragraph thirty-six
thereof, duly ratified and that all the provisions thereof, except said

paragraph thirty -six which failed of ratification by the Creek national council, became law according to the terms thereof upon the twenty-

fifth day of May, nineteen hundred and one.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the city of Washington this twenty-fifth day of June, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one and

[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-fifth .

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President :

DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

July 1 , 1901.

[No. 4. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 28, p. 1240.
Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas, the Cascade Range Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon, was established by proclamation dated September 28, 1893 , under and by virtue of section twenty-four of the Act of Congress , approved

March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, " An act to

repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides. " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public lands

wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

commercial value or not, as public reservations , and the President shall , by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress , approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled , "An act

making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

reserve , or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

Cascade Range Forest Reserve. Oreg.

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United

Lands added.

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety -seven ,

do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved

from entry or settlement, and added to and made a part of the aforesaid Cascade Range Forest Reserve , all those certain tracts, pieces or

Boundaries.

parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Oregon and particularly described as follows, to wit:
The south half (S. ) of Township one (1) South , Townships two (2) South, three (3) South , and four (4) South, Range eleven (11) East,

Willamette Meridian; Townships five (5) South, Ranges nine (9) and

ten (10) East ; and so much of Townships six (6) South, Ranges nine (9) and ten (10) East, as lies north of the Warm Springs Indian Reservation .

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 4, 5.

1973

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted .

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been

made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this exception

shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the

entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under

which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.
ment upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal
of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this first day of July, in the year

[SEAL . ]

of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and one, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - fifth .

By the President :

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 5. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 4, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress , approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety - one , entitled "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof. "

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Oklahoma , within

the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United OkFloarehsotmar.eservation, States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a public reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land

lying and being situate in the Territory of Oklahoma and particularly described as follows , to wit:
Beginning at the south- east corner of township three (3) north,

Boundaries.

range fourteen (14) west, Indian Meridian , Territory of Oklahoma ;

thence north along the township line to the north-east corner of sec-

tion twenty-four (24), township three (3) north, range fourteen (14) west; thence east on the section line to the south-east corner of section

thirteen (13) , township three (3) north , range thirteen (13) west ; thence

north along the range line between ranges twelve (12) and thirteen

(13) west, to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of section

twelve (12) , township three (3) north, range thirteen (13) west ; thence

west to the south-west corner of the north - west quarter of section

1974

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 5 .

twelve ( 12), township three (3) north, range thirteen (13) west ; thence north to the south-west corner of section one (1) , township three (3) north, range thirteen (13) west ; thence west along the section line

between sections two (2) and eleven (11) , to the south-west corner of section two (2), township three (3) north, range thirteen ( 13) west ; thence north along the section line between sections two (2) and three

(3) to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of section three (3) , township three (3) north , range thirteen (13) west ; thence west along the center line of sections three (3) , four (4) , five (5) , and six

(6) , to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of section six (6) , township three (3), north , range thirteen (13) west ; thence north along the range line between ranges thirteen (13) and fourteen (14)

west to the northeast corner of section one (1) , township three (3) north, range fourteen (14) west ; thence west along the township line between townships three (3) and four (4) north to the north- west corner of section two (2) , township three (3) north , range fourteen ( 14) west; thence north to the northeast corner of section thirty-four (34) , township four (4) north , range fourteen (14) west ; thence west to the northwest corner of section thirty -four (34) , township four (4) north , range fourteen (14) west ; thence north to the northeast corner of the southeast quarter of section twenty - one (21) , township four (4) north, range fourteen (14) west ; thence west to the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of section twenty (20), township four (4) north, range fourteen (14) west ; thence north to the northeast

corner of section eighteen (18), township four (4) north, range fourteen (14) west; thence west to the northwest corner of section seventeen (17), township four (4) north, range fifteen (15) west ; thence south to the

southwest corner of section twenty-nine (29), township four (4) north, range fifteen (15) west; thence east to the southeast corner of section

twenty-nine (29) , township four (4) north, range fifteen (15 ) west ; thence south to the southwest corner of section thirty -three (33) , township four (4) north, range fifteen (15) west ; thence east to the south-

east corner of said section thirty- three (33) , township four (4) north, range fifteen (15) west ; thence south to the southwest corner of the

northwest quarter of section ten (10) , township three (3) north, range fifteen ( 15) west ; thence east to the southeast corner of the northeast quarter of said section ten ; thence south to the southwest corner of

section twenty -six (26), township three (3) north, range fifteen (15) west; thence east to the southeast corner of said section twenty- six (26) ; thence south to the southwest corner of the northwest quarter

of section thirty -six (36) , township three (3) north, range fifteen ( 15)

west; thence east to the center of section thirty-three (33) , township

three (3) north , range fourteen (14) west ; thence south to the south-

west corner of the southeast quarter of said section thirty-three (33) ;

thence east along the township line between townships two (2) and

three (3) north to the southeast corner of township three (3) north,

range fourteen (14) west, the place of beginning.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.

Wichita Forest Re-

serve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Wichita

Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this fourth day of July , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one , and of the
[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty - sixth .

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : DAVID J. HILL ,

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

1975

[No. 6. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 4, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, by an agreement between the Wichita and affiliated bands
of Indians on the one part, and certain commissioners of the United States on the other part, ratified by act of Congress approved March 2 , 1895 (28 Stat . , 876 , 894) , the said Indians ceded , conveyed, transferred and relinquished, forever and absolutely, without any reservation whatever, unto the United States of America, all their claim, title and interest of every kind and character in and to the lands embraced in
the following described tract of country now in the Territory of Oklahoma, to wit:

Preamble. Vol. 28, p. 894.

"Commencing at a point in the middle of the main channel of the Washita River Lands ceded by where the ninety-eighth meridian of west longitude crosses the same, thence up the Wichita, etc. , Indians. middle of the main channel of said river to the line of 98 40 west longitude, thence on said line of 98  40 due north to the middle of the channel of the main Canadian River, thence down the middle of the said main Canadian River to where it crosses the ninety-eighth meridian, thence due south to the place of beginning. "

And whereas, in pursuance of said act of Congress ratifying said agreement, allotments of land in severalty have been regularly made to each and every member of said Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians, native and adopted, and the lands occupied by religious societies or other organizations for religious or educational work among the Indians have been regularly allotted and confirmed to such societies and organizations, respectively;
And whereas, by an agreement between the Comanche , Kiowa and Apache tribes of Indians on the one part, and certain commissioners of the United States on the other part, amended and ratified by act of Congress, approved June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. , 672 , 676) , the said Indian tribes, subject to certain conditions which have been duly performed, ceded, conveyed, transferred , relinquished and surrendered forever and absolutely, without any reservation whatsoever, expressed or implied, unto the United States of America, all their claim, title and interest of every kind and character in and to the lands embraced in the following described tract of country now in the Territory of Oklahoma, to wit:

Vol. 31, p. 676.

"Commencing at a point where the Washita River crosses the ninety-eighth merid- Lands ceded by

icahnanwneeslt

tfhreormeoGf,retoenawpiocihn;t tthheinrtcyemuipletsh,ebWyarsihvietra, wReisvtero,fiFnotrhte Cmoibddbl, easofnothweemstaaibn-

aCnodmaAnpcahceh,e

Kiowa , Indians.

lished; thence due west to the north fork of Red River, provided said line strikes said river east of the one-hundredth meridian of west longitude ; if not, then only to
said meridian line, and thence due south, on said meridian line, to the said north fork of Red River; thence down said north fork, in the middle of the main channel
thereof, from the point where it may be first intersected by the lines above described, to the main Red River; thence down said Red River, in the middle of the main channel thereof, to its intersection with the ninety-eighth meridian of longitude west from Greenwich; thence north, on said meridian line, to the place of beginning."

And whereas, in pursuance of said act of Congress ratifying the agreement last named , allotments of land in severalty have been regularly made to each member of said Comanche, Kiowa and Apache
tribes of Indians; the lands occupied by religious societies or other organizations for religious or educational work among the Indians have been regularly allotted and confirmed to such societies and organizations, respectively ; and the Secretary of the Interior, out of the lands ceded by the agreement last named, has regularly selected and set aside for the use in common for said Comanche, Kiowa and Apache tribes of Indians, four hundred and eighty thousand acres of grazing lands ;

1976 Vol. 28, p. 897.
Vol. 31, p. 679.
Vol . 31 , p. 727. Vol . 31 , p. 1093.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

And whereas, in the act of Congress ratifying the said Wichita agreement, it is provided-

" That whenever any of the lands acquired by this agreement shall, by operation

of law or proclamation of the President of the United States, be open to settlement,

they shall be disposed of under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite

laws of the United States : Provided, That in addition to the land office fees pre-

scribed by statute for such entries the entry man shall pay one dollar and twenty-

five cents per acre for the land entered at the time of submitting his final proof:

And provided further, That in all homestead entries where the entry man has resided

upon and improved the land entered in good faith for the period of fourteen months

he may commute his entry to cash upon the payment of one dollar and twenty-five

cents per acre : And provided further, That the rights of honorably discharged Union

soldiers and sailors of the late civil war, as defined and described in sections twenty-

three hundred and four and twenty-three hundred and five of the Revised Statutes,

shall not be abridged : And provided further, That any qualified entry man having

lands adjoining the lands herein ceded, whose original entry embraced less than one

hundred and sixty acres, may take sufficient land from said reservation to make his

homestead entry not to exceed one hundred and sixty acres in all, said land to be

taken upon the same conditions as are required of other entry men: Provided, That

said lands shall be opened to settlement within one year after said allotments are made to the Indians.

*

*

"That the laws relating to the mineral lands of the United States are hereby extended over the lands ceded by the foregoing agreement . "

And whereas in the act of Congress ratifying the said Comanche, Kiowa and Apache agreement, it is provided-

That the lands acquired by this agreement shall be opened to settlement by proclamation of the President within six months after allotments are made and be dis-

posed of under the general provisions of the homestead and town-site laws of the United States: Provided, That in addition to the land- office fees prescribed by

statute for such entries the entryman shall pay one dollar and twenty-five cents per

acre for the land entered at the time of submitting his final proof: And provided

further, That in all homestead entries where the entryman has resided upon and improved the land entered in good faith for the period of fourteen months he may

commute his entry to cash upon the payment of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre: And provided further, That the rights of honorably discharged Union soldiers and sailors of the late civil war, as defined and described in sections twenty-three hundred and four and twenty-three hundred and five of the Revised Statutes shall

not be abridged : And provided further, That any person who, having attempted to but for any cause failed to secure a title in fee to a homestead under existing laws, or

who made entry under what is known as the commuted provision of the homestead

law, shall be qualified to make a homestead entry upon said lands: And provided

further, That any qualified entryman having lands adjoining the lands herein ceded, whose original entry embraced less than one hundred and sixty acres in all, shall

have the right to enter so much of the lands by this agreement ceded lying contiguous to his said entry as shall, with the land already entered, make in the aggregate one

hundred and sixty acres, said land to be taken upon the same conditions as are

required of other entrymen: And provided further, That the settlers who located on that part of said lands called and known as the ' neutral strip ' shall have preference

right for thirty days on the lands upon which they have located and improved.

*

*

*

*

*

*

" That should any of said lands allotted to said Indians, or opened to settlement under this Act, contain valuable mineral deposits, such mineral deposits shall be open to location and entry, under the existing mining laws of the United States, upon the passage of this Act, and the mineral laws of the United States are hereby extended over said lands."

And whereas, by the act of Congress approved January 4 , 1901 (31 Stat. , 727), the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to extend, for a period not exceeding eight months from December 6 , 1900, the time for making allotments to the Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache Indians and opening to settlement the lands so ceded by them;
And whereas, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1901 (31 Stat. , 1093) , the Secretary of the Interior has regularly subdivided the lands so as aforesaid respectively ceded to the United States by the Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians and the Comanche,
Kiowa, and Apache tribes of Indians into counties, attaching portions thereof to adjoining counties in the Territory of Oklahoma, has regularly designated the place for the county seat of each new county , has

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

1977

regularly set aside and reserved at such county seat land for a townsite to be disposed of in the manner provided by the act of Congress last named, and has regularly caused to be surveyed , subdivided, and platted the lands so set aside and reserved for disposition as such townsites ;
And whereas, by the act of Congress last named , it is provided-
"The lands to be opened to settlement and entry under the Acts of Congress ratifying said agreements respectively shall be so opened by proclamation of the President, and to avoid the contests and conflicting claims which have heretofore resulted from opening similar public lands to settlement and entry, the President's proclamation shall prescribe the manner in which these lands may be settled upon, occupied and entered by persons entitled thereto under the Acts ratifying said agreements, respectively; and no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy or enter any of said lands except as prescribed in such proclamation until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are opened to settlement and entry."
And whereas, by the act of Congress last named the President was authorized to establish two additional United States land districts and
land offices in the Territory of Oklahoma to include the lands so ceded as aforesaid, which land districts and land offices have been established
by an order of even date herewith ; And whereas all of the conditions required by law to be performed
prior to the opening of said tracts of land to settlement and entry have been, as I hereby declare, duly performed ;
Now therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States WiLcahnidtsa, cCeodmeadnchbey, of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by law, do hereby IKnidoiwaans, oapnedn tAopeantcrhye declare and make known that all of the lands so as aforesaid ceded by August 6, 1901 . the Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians, and the Comanche, Post, p. 2007. Kiowa, and Apache tribes of Indians, respectively , saving and excepting sections sixteen , thirty -six, thirteen and thirty- three in each township, and all lands located or selected by the Territory of Oklahoma as indemnity school or educational lands, and saving and excepting all lands allotted in severalty to individual Indians, and saving and except-
ing all lands allotted and confirmed to religious societies and other organizations, and saving and excepting the lands selected and set aside as grazing lands for the use in common for said Comanche , Kiowa, and Apache tribes of Indians , and saving and excepting the lands set aside and reserved at each of said county seats for disposition as townsites , and saving and excepting the lands now used, occupied, or set apart for military, agency , school , school farm, religious, Indian cemetery , wood reserve, forest reserve, or other public uses, will, on the 6th day of August , 1901 , at 9 o'clock a . m. , in the manner herein prescribed and not otherwise, be opened to entry and settlement and to disposition under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of the United States.
Registration of apCommencing at 9 o'clock a. m. , Wednesday, July 10, 1901 , and end- plicants. ing at 6 o'clock p. m. , Friday , July 26, 1901 , a registration will be had at the United States land offices at El Reno and Lawton, in the Territory of Oklahoma (the office at Lawton to occupy provisional quarters in the immedate vicinity of Fort Sill, Oklahoma Territory, until suit-
able quarters can be provided at Lawton) , for the purpose of ascertaining what persons desire to enter, settle upon, and acquire title to any of said lands under the homestead law and of ascertaining their qualifications so to do. The registration at each office will be for both
land districts, but at the time of registration each applicant will be required to elect and state in which district he desires to make entry. To obtain registration each applicant will be required to show himself duly qualified to make homestead entry of these lands under existing laws and to give the registering officer such appropriate matters of description and identity as will protect the applicant and the government against any attempted impersonation. Registration can not be effected through the use of the mails or the employment of an agent,

1978

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

excepting that honorably discharged soldiers and sailors entitled to the

R. S. , sec. 2304, p. 422. benefits of section 2304 of the Revised Statutes of the United States , as

Vol. 31 , p. 847.

amended by the act of Congress approved March 1 , 1901 (31 Stat. , 847),

may present their applications for registration and due proofs of their qualifications through an agent of their own selection , but no person will be permitted to act as agent for more than one such soldier or sailor. No person will be permitted to register more than once or in any other than his true name. Each applicant who shows himself duly

qualified will be registered and given a non-transferable certificate to that effect, which will entitle him to go upon and examine the lands to be opened hereunder in the land district in which he elects to make his entry; but the only purpose for which he may go upon and examine said lands is that of enabling him later on , as herein provided , to understandingly select the lands for which he will make entry. No one will be permitted to make settlement upon any of said lands in advance of the opening herein provided for, and during the first sixty days following said opening no one but registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead settlement upon any of said lands, and then only in pursuance of a homestead entry duly allowed by the local land off-

cers , or of a soldier's declaratory statement duly accepted by such

officers .

Entries determined

by drawings.

The order in which , during the first sixty days following the open-

Regulations.

ing, the registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead

entry of the lands opened hereunder, will be determined by drawings

for both the El Reno and Lawton districts publicly held at the United

States land office at El Reno, Oklahoma , commencing at 9 o'clock

a. m . , Monday, July 29, 1901 , and continuing for such period as may be necessary to complete the same . The drawings will be had under

the supervision and immediate observation of a committee of three persons whose integrity is such as to make their control of the drawing a guaranty of its fairness. The members of this committee will be

appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who will prescribe suitable compensation for their services. Preparatory to these drawings the registration officers will , at the time of registering each applicant

who shows himself duly qualified, make out a card, which must be signed by the applicant, stating the land district in which he desires to

make homestead entry, and giving such a description of the applicant as will enable the local land officers to thereafter identify him . This

card will be at once sealed in a separate envelope, which will bear no other distinguishing label or mark than such as may be necessary to show that it is to go into the drawing for the lana district in which

the applicant desires to make entry. These envelopes will be separated according to land districts and will be carefully preserved and remained sealed until opened in the course of the drawing as herein provided. When the registration is completed all of these sealed envelopes will be brought together at the place of drawing and turned

over to the committee in charge of the drawing, who , in such manner as in their judgment will be attended with entire fairness and equality of opportunity, shall proceed to draw out and open the separate envelopes and to give to each enclosed card a number in the order in which

the envelope containing the same is drawn . While the drawings for

the two districts will be separately conducted they will occur as nearly at the same time as is practicable. The result of the drawing for each district will be certified by the committee to the officers of the district

and will determine the order in which the applicants may make home-
stead entry of said lands and settlement thereon. Notice of drawings.
Notice of the drawings stating the name of each applicant and num-
ber assigned to him by the drawing will be posted each day at the place
of drawing, and each applicant will be notified of his number by a

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

1979

postal-card mailed to him at the address, if any, given by him at the time of registration . Each applicant should , however, in his own behalf employ such measures as will insure his obtaining prompt and accurate information of the order in which his application for homestead entry can be presented as fixed by the drawing. Applications for homestead entry of said lands during the first sixty days following

the opening can be made only by registered applicants and in the order established by the drawing. At each land office, commencing Presentation of ap-

Tuesday, August 6, 1901 , at 9 o'clock a. m. , the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 125, inclusive, for that district must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the first

day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 126 to 250, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order

during the second day , and so on at that rate until all of said lands

subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder,

have been entered . If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached , his right to enter will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry , failing in which he will be

deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such draw-

ing. To obtain the allowance of a homestead entry each applicant must personally present the certificate of registration theretofore issued to him, together with a regular homestead application and the necessary accompanying proofs, and with the regular land office fees,

but an honorably discharged soldier or sailor may file his declaratory

statement through the agent representing him at the registration . The production of the certificate of registration will be dispensed with only upon satisfactory proof of its loss or destruction. If at the time

of considering his regular application for entry it appears that any applicant is disqualified from making homestead entry of these lands

his application will be rejected, notwithstanding his prior registration. If any applicant shall register more than once hereunder, or in any other than his true name, or shall transfer his registration certificate

he will thereby lose all the benefits of the registration and drawing

herein provided for, and will be precluded from entering or settling

upon any of said lands during the first sixty days following said

opening.

Because of the provision in the said act of Congress approved June Preference"rnieguhttraolf

6,

1900 :

" That

the

settlers who

located

on

that

part of

said

lands strip." Vol. 31, p. 680.

called and known as the ' neutral strip ' shall have preference right

for thirty days on the lands upon which they have located and improved," the said lands in the " neutral strip " shall for the period

of thirty days after said opening be subject to homestead entry and

townsite entry only by those who have heretofore located upon and

improved the same, and who are accorded a preference right of entry for thirty days as aforesaid. Persons entitled to make entry under

this preference right will be permitted to do so at any time during

said period of thirty days following the opening without previous registration, and without regard to the drawing herein provided for, and at the expiration of that period the lands in said " neutral strip for which no entry shall have been made will come under the general

provisions of this proclamation. The intended beneficiaries of the provision in the said acts of Con-
gress, approved , respectively, March 2, 1895 , and June 6 , 1900 , which

Adjoining lands. Vol. 28, p. 897.
Vol. 31, p. 680.

authorizes a qualified entryman having lands adjoining the ceded lands, whose original entry embraced less than 160 acres, to enter so much of the ceded lands as will make his homestead entry contain in

the aggregate not exceeding 160 acres, may obtain such an extension

1980

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 6.

Townsite entries.

of his existing entry , without previous registration and without regard to the drawing herein provided for, only by making appropriate application, accompanied by the necessary proofs, at the proper new land office at some time prior to the opening herein provided for.
Any person or persons desiring to found, or to suggest establishing a townsite upon any of said ceded lands at any point not in the near vicinity of either of the county seats therein heretofore selected and designated as aforesaid, may, at any time before the opening herein provided for, file in the proper local land office a written application to that effect describing by legal subdivisions the lands intended to be affected , and stating fully and under oath the necessity or propriety of founding or establishing a town at that place. The local officers will forthwith transmit said petition to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with their recommendation in the premises. Such Commissioner, if he believes the public interests will be subserved thereby, will, if the Secretary of the Interior approve thereof, issue an order withdrawing the lands described in such petition, or any portion thereof, from homestead entry and settlement and directing that the same be held for the time being for townsite settlement, entry, and disposition only. In such event the lands so withheld from homestead entry and settlement will, at the time of said opening and not before, become subject to settlement, entry, and disposition under the general townsite laws of the United States. None of said ceded lands will be subject to settlement,

County seats. Vol. 31, p. 1094.

entry, or disposition under such general townsite laws except in the manner herein prescribed until after the expiration of sixty days from the time of said opening.
Attention is hereby especially called to the fact that under the special provisions of the said act of Congress approved March 3 , 1901 , the townsites selected and designated at the county seats of the new counties into which said lands have been formed can not be disposed of under the general townsite laws ofthe United States , and can only be disposed of in the special manner provided in said act of Congress, which declares :

"The lands so set apart and designated shall, in advance of the opening, be surveyed, subdivided, and platted , under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, into appropriate lots, blocks, streets , alleys, and sites for parks of public buildings, so as to make a town site thereof : Provided, That no person shall purchase more than one business and one residence lot. Such town lots shall be offered and sold at public auction to the highest bidder, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, at sales to be had at the opening and subsequent thereto." Warning against All persons are especially admonished that under the said act of premature entry. Congress approved March 3, 1901 , it is provided that no person shall be permitted to settle upon , occupy , or enter any of said ceded lands

poSseetdtllaenmdesn.t of undis

except in the manner prescribed in this proclamation until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are opened to settlement and entry. After the expiration of the said period of sixty
days, but not before, any of said lands remaining undisposed of may be settled upon, occupied and entered under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of the United States in like manner

as if the manner of effecting such settlement, occupancy and entry had

not been prescribed herein in obedience to law.

Wire fences not to

be destroyed, etc.

It appearing that there are fences around the pastures into which, for

convenience, portions of the ceded lands have heretofore been divided,

and that these fences are of considerable value and are still the property

of the Indian tribes ceding said lands to the United States, all persons going upon, examining, entering, or settling upon any of said lands

are cautioned to respect such fences as the property of the Indians and not to destroy, appropriate, or carry away the same, but to leave them

Regulations.

undisturbed so that they may be seasonably removed and preserved for the benefit of the Indians.
The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos . 6 , 7.

regulations necessary to carry into full effect the opening herein provided for.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one , and of

[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- sixth.
By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

Acting Secretary of State.

1981

[ No. 7. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 15, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, the Olympic Forest Reserve, in the State of Washington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second , eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , under and by virtue of section

Preamble. Vol. 31, p. 1962.

twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen Vol. 26, p. 1103. hundred and ninety -one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture

laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public lands bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth,

whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

And whereas , it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled " An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

Vol. 30, p. 36.

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

under which provision , certain lands were withdrawn and excluded

from the said forest reserve by proclamation dated April seventh , nine-
teen hundred : Olympic Forest Re-
Now, therefore, I , William McKinley, President of the United serve, Washington.

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety - seven, do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the

aforesaid Olympic Forest Reserve are hereby further changed so as to read as follows :
Beginning at the north-east corner of Township twenty-one (21 )

New boundaries.

North, Range five (5) West , Willamette Meridian , Washington ; thence

northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- five (25), Town-

ship twenty- three (23) North, Range five (5) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west corner

of section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

1982

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 7.
north-west corner of section ten (10), said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12), said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township twenty-three (23 ) North, Range four (4) West; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township twenty-four (24) North, Range three (3) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said township; thence northerly to the southwest corner of Township twenty- eight (28) North, Range two ( 2) West : thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty- three (33), said township ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty -one (21), Township twenty - nine (29) North, Range two (2) West; thence westerly along the section lines to the point for the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18), Township twenty -nine (29) North, Range five (5) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Township thirty (30) North , Range eight (8) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty - five (25) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty (20), said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section eighteen (18) , said township; thence westerly to the point for the north-east corner of Section thirteen (13) , Township thirty (30) North , Range ten (10) West; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty (30) North, Range eleven (11) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen (19) said township; thence easterly to the south - west corner of Section twenty-three (23), Township thirty (30) North, Range ten (10) , West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- five (35) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section three (3), Township twenty-nine (29), Range eleven (11 ) West; thence southerly to the point for the north- east corner of Section twenty-seven (27), said township; thence westerly to the point for the north- west corner of Section thirty (30), said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township twenty -eight (28) , Range twelve (12) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township twenty-seven (27) North, Range eleven (11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one (1 ) , said township: thence westerly to the north -west corner of Section ten (10) , Township twenty-seven (27) North, Range twelve (12) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-four (24) , said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township twenty- seven (27) North , Range eleven (11 ) West; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township twenty -five (25) North, Range eleven (11 ) West; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township twenty - four (24) North, Range eleven (11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence westerly along the township line to its point of intersection with the north boundary of the Quinaielt Indian Reservation ; thence southeasterly along the north boundary of said Indian Reservation to the eastern point of said reservation and southwesterly along the east boundary thereof to the point of intersection with the township line between Townships twenty-one (21 ) and twenty-two (22) North; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township twenty-one (21 ) North, range ten (10) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section one

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 7, 8.

1983

(1) said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section six (6), Township twenty-one (21) North , Range eight ( 8) West ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen (18) , said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen (16) ,

said township; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section

four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6) , Township twenty - one (21 ) North, Range seven (7) West; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section sixteen (16) , Township twenty-one

(21) North, Range six (6) West ; thence northerly to the point for the north-east corner of Section nine (9), said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section six (6), Township twenty- one (21)

North, Range five (5) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said town-

ship, the place of beginning. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which
to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Reserved from setWarning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- tlement. tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
That the lands hereby restored to the public domain shall be open stSoertedtlleamnednst. of reto settlement from date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing

or selection until after ninety days notice by such publication as the

Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal
of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of July, in the

year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and one , and [ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty -sixth.

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 8. ]

[A PROCLAMATION. ]

July 25, 1901.

Whereas, by an Act of Congress, approved April 12 , 1900, entitled "An Act Temporarily to Provide Revenues and a Civil Government for Porto Rico and for other Purposes , " it was provided that, " whenever the legislative assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government of Porto Rico, by this Act established , and shall by resolution duly passed so notify the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and thereupon all tariff duties on merchandise and articles going into Porto Rico from the United States or coming into the United States from Porto Rico shall cease, and from and after such date all

Preamble. Vol. 31 , p. 78.
Porto Rico . Cessation of tariff.

1984

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 8.

such merchandise and articles shall be entered at the several ports of

entry free of duty ; " and

Porto Rican reve-

nues.

Whereas by the same act it was provided , " that as soon as a civil

government for Porto Rico shall have been organized in accordance

with the provisions of this act, and notice thereof shall have been given

to the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and thereafter all

collections of duties and taxes in Porto Rico under the provisions of

this act shall be paid into the treasury of Porto Rico, to be expended as required by law for the government and benefit thereof, instead of

being paid into the Treasury of the United States ; " and

Act of Porto Rican

Assembly.

Whereas the legislative assembly of Porto Rico has enacted and put

into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the

government of Porto Rico as aforesaid, and has passed and caused to

be communicated to me the following resolution :

A JOINT RESOLUTION of the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, notifying the President of the United States that the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico has enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the Government of Porto Rico, established by
Act of Congress, entitled " an Act temporarily to provide revenues and a Civil Government for Porto Rico, and for other purposes, " duly approved April 12th, 1900:

Be it Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico:

Whereas: A civil government for Porto Rico has been fully and completely organized in accordance with the provisions of an Act of Congress entitled " An Act tem-

porarily to provide revenues and a civil government for Porto Rico, and for other purposes, " duly approved April 12th, 1900, and :
Whereas: It was provided by the terms of said Act of Congress, that whenever the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the Government of Porto Rico, by the aforesaid Act established , and shall by resolution duly passed so notify the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and thereupon all tariff duties on merchandise and articles going into Porto Rico from the United States, or coming into the United States from Porto Rico shall cease, and from and after such date all such merchandise and articles shall be entered at the several ports of entry free of duty:
Now Therefore: The Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico in extraordinary session duly called by the Governor and held at San Juan, the Capital , on July fourth, A. D.

1901 , acting pursuant to the authority and power in it vested by the provisions of the said Act of Congress above referred to, does hereby notify the President of the United States that by virtue of an Act of the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, entitled " An Act to provide revenue for the people of Porto Rico, and for other purposes," duly approved January 31st, A. D. 1901 , and of other acts of the Legislative Assembly duly enacted at the first session of the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, duly held at San Juan , Porto Rico, commencing December 3rd, 1900, and ending January 31st, A. D. 1901 , it has enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the Government of Porto Rico, by the aforesaid Act of Congress established.

The Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico hereby directs that a copy of this joint resolution be presented to the President of the United States, and hereby requests the Governor of Porto Rico to deliver the same to the President, to the end that

proclamation may be made by him according to the provisions of the said Act of

Congress, and if it shall seem wise and proper to the President, that such proclama-

tion may issue on the twenty-fifth day of July, the said day being a legally estab-

lished holiday in Porto Rico commemorating the anniversary of the coming of the

American flag to the Island.

WILLIAM H. HUNT,

MAN. F. Rossy,

President of the Executive Council.

Speaker ofthe House of Delegates.

Approved, July 4th, A. D. 1901 .

CHAS. H. ALLEN, Governor.

Porto Rico civil gov-

ernment organized.

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United

States, in pursuance of the provisions of law above quoted , and upon

the foregoing due notification , do hereby issue this my proclamation,

and do declare and make known that a civil government for Porto

Rico has been organized in accordance with the provisions of the said

act of Congress ;

Local taxation established .

And I do further declare and make known that the Legislative

Assembly of Porto Rico has enacted and put into operation a system

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 8, 9.
of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government of Porto Rico .
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this twenty-fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[SEAL. ] one, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- sixth. WILLIAM MCKINLEY
By the President : DAVID J. HILL, Acting Secretary of State.

1985

[ No. 9. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 3, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress , approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , entitled ,
An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time , set apart

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with
timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Utah, within the limits
hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears
that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation;
Forest Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United Utah. States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim
that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of
land lying and being situate in the State of Utah and particularly described as follows, to wit:

Reserve,

Beginning at the north-east corner of Section four (4), Township ten ( 10) South, Range three (3) East , Salt Lake base and Meridian, Utah; thence westerly along the township line to the north-west corner of Section five (5) , Township ten ( 10) South, Range two (2 ) East; Thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section nineteen (19), said township; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section; thence southerly along the range line to the south-west corner

Boundaries.

of Township twelve (12) South, Range two (2) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township eleven (11 ) South, Range three (3) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-one (21) , said township; thence northerly along the section line to the north-east corner of Section four (4), Township ten (10) South, Range three (3) East , the place of beginning.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -48

1986

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 9 , 10.

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation .

The Payson Forest

Reserve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Payson

Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3rd day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one and of the

[ SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- sixth . WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE, Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 10. ]

August 20, 1901.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 31 , p. 1442.

Whereas notice has been given me by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission , in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 of

the Act of Congress, approved March 3 , 1901 , entitled "An Act To

provide for celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase

of the Louisiana territory by the United States by holding an inter-

national exhibition of arts , industries, manufactures, and the products

of the soil , mine, forest , and sea in the city of St. Louis, in the State

of Missouri," that provision has been made for grounds and buildings

for the uses provided for in the said Act of Congress:

Louisiana Purchase

Exposition.

Now, therefore, 1 , William McKinley , President of the United States,

Time of, announced. by virtue of the authority vested in me by said Act , do hereby declare Post, p. 2011.

and proclaim that such International Exhibition will be opened in the

city of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, not later than the first day

of May, nineteen hundred and three, and will be closed not later than naItnivointsa.tion to foreign the first day of December thereafter. And in the name of the Govern-

ment and of the people of the United States , i do hereby invite all the

nations of the earth to take part in the commemoration of the Pur-

chase of the Louisiana Territory, an event of great interest to the

United States and of abiding effect on their development, by appointing

representatives and sending such exhibits to the Louisiana Purchase

Exposition as will most fitly and fully illustrate their resources, their

industries, and their progress in civilization.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this twentieth day of August, one thousand nine hundred and one , and of the Independence of

[ SEAL . ] the United States, the one hundred and twenty - sixth. WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 11 , 12.

1987

[No. 11. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 14, 1901 .

A PROCLAMATION.

To the people of the United States: Death of William
A terrible bereavement has befallen our people. The President of McKinley, President
the United States has been struck down ; a crime not only against the ofthe United States.
Chief Magistrate, but against every law-abiding and liberty-loving citizen.

President McKinley crowned a life of largest love for his fellow men , of earnest endeavor for their welfare, by a death of Christian

fortitude ; and both the way in which he lived his life and the way in which, in the supreme hour of trial, he met his death will remain
forever a precious heritage of our people.
It is meet that we as a nation express our abiding love and reverence
for his life, our deep sorrow for his untimely death. Thursday, Septem-
Now, therefore, 1 , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United ber 19, 1901 , appointed States of America, do appoint Thursday next, September 19, the day pardaayyerof. mourning and in which the body of the dead President will be laid in its last earthly resting place, as a day of mourning and prayer throughout the United States. I earnestly recommend all the people to assemble on that day in their respective places of divine worship, there to bow down in submission to the will of Almighty God, and to pay out of full hearts the homage of love and reverence to the memory of the great and good President, whose death has so sorely smitten the nation.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington , this fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ]

one, and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 12. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

November 2, 1901.

A PROCLAMATION.

The season is nigh when, according to the time-hallowed custom of
our people, the President appoints a day as the especial occasion for praise and thanksgiving to God.
This Thanksgiving finds the people still bowed with sorrow for the death of a great and good President. We mourn President McKinley because we so loved and honored him; and the manner of his death should awaken in the breasts of our people a keen anxiety for the country , and at the same time a resolute purpose not to be driven by any calamity from the path of strong, orderly, popular liberty which as a nation we have thus far safely trod.
Yet in spite of this great disaster, it is nevertheless true that no people on earth have such abundant cause for thanksgiving as we have. The past year in particular has been one of peace and plenty . We have prospered in things material and have been able to work for our own

Preamble.

L

1988

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos . 12, 13 .

uplifting in things intellectual and spiritual. Let us remember that, as much as has been given us, much will be expected from us ; and that true homage comes from the heart as well as from the lips and shows itself in deeds. We can best prove our thankfulness to the

Almighty by the way in which on this earth and at this time each of us

does his duty to his fellow men.

Thursday, November 28, 1901 , set apart

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

as a day of national States , do hereby designate as a day of general thanksgiving Thursday,
thanksgiving . the 28th of this present November, and do recommend that throughout

the land the people cease from their wonted occupations, and at their

several homes and places of worship reverently thank the Giver of all

good for the countless blessings of our national life.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this second day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and one
[ SEAL. ] and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- sixth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

April 11, 1902.

[ No. 13. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 26, p . 1103.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one , entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes",

"That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof":

And whereas , the public lands in the State of Colorado , within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve , Colorado .

Now, therefore , I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty - four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

Boundaries.

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado and particularly described as follows, to wit :
In Township forty- four (44) North, Range eleven (11) East, the following sections : one (1) to three (3) , both inclusive, east half of Sec-

tion four (4) , Sections ten (10) to fifteen (15) , both inclusive, east half of Section twenty-two (22), Sections twenty- three (23) to twenty - six

(26), both inclusive, and Section thirty-five (35) .

In Township forty - five (45) North, Range eleven (11) East, the following sections : one ( 1) to five (5) , both inclusive , east half of Sections

six (6) and seven (7) , Sections eight (8) to seventeen (17), both inclusive, sections twenty (20) to twenty-eight (28) , both inclusive, east half

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 13, 14.

1989

of Section twenty -nine ( 29) and Sections thirty -three (33) to thirty- six (36), both inclusive.

In Township forty-three (43) North, Range twelve (12) East, the following sections: one (1 ) to five (5) , both inclusive, and Sections

eight (8) to twelve ( 12) , both inclusive . In Township forty-four (44) North, Range twelve (12) East , the fol-
lowing sections : one (1 ) to thirty - five (35), both inclusive. In Township forty-five (45) North , Range twelve (12) East, the fol
lowing sections: two (2) to eleven (11 ) , both inclusive, and Sections thirteen (13) to thirty-five (35), both inclusive .
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

Lands excepted .

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.
ment upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation. The San Isabel For-
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The San Isabel est Reserve.
Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 11th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty -sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 14. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 11 , 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas , it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ' " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

Preamble. Vol . 26, p. 1103.

apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with

timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, within

the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and
it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart
and reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United Forest reserve Arizona.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty - four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land

1990 Boundaries..

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 14.
lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to-wit:
Beginning at the north-west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range fourteen (14) East, Gila and Salt River Meridian , Arizona ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel South ; thence easterly along said parallel to the north-west corner of Section five (5), Township sixteen (16) South, Range fourteen (14) East ; thence southerly along the section lines to the south-west corner of Section twenty (20), said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines to the north-east corner of Section eight (8), Township seventeen (17) South, Range fourteen ( 14) East; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines to the north-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the northern boundary of the San Ygnacio de la Canoa Grant, as confirmed by the United States Court of Private Land Claims ; thence in a south-easterly and south-westerly direction along the boundary of said grant to its intersection with the range line between Ranges thirteen (13) and fourteen (14) East; thence southerly to the northeast corner of Township nineteen ( 19) South, Range thirteen ( 13) East ; thence westerly along the township line to its intersection with the boundary of said grant ; thence in a southwesterly and north -westerly direction along said boundary to its intersection with the section lines between Sections twenty -eight (28) and twenty-nine (29) and thirtytwo (32) and thirty -three (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section (8), Township twenty (20) South, Range thirteen (13 ) East; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtythree (33) , said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty - five (35) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel South ; thence easterly, along the said surveyed and unsurveyed parallel, to the point for its intersection with the range line between Ranges fifteen (15) East, and sixteen (16 ) East ; thence northerly along said range line to the north- west corner of Township nineteen ( 19 ) South, Range sixteen (16) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty - four (34), Township eighteen (18) South , Range seventeen (17) East ; thence northerly along the section lines to the south-west corner of Section .fourteen (14), said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- five (35), Township seventeen (17) South , Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve (12), said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section two (2) , said township; thence westerly to the south - east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township sixteen (16) South , Range seventeen (17) East; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section twentynine (29) , said township ; thence westerly along the quarter - section

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 14 , 15.

1991

lines to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-five (25) , Township sixteen (16) South, Range sixteen

(16) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen (17), said township; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section eight (8), said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six

(6), said township; thence westerly along the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel South to the south- east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range fifteen (15) East ; thence northerly, to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north -east corner of Section twenty -two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Section eight (8) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six (6), said township; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township fourteen (14) South, Range fourteen (14) East; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twentysix (26) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27), said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34), said township; thence

westerly to the north- west corner of Township fifteen (15) South , Range fourteen (14) East, the place of beginning.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

Lands excepted.

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.

ment upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.

The Santa Rita For-

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Santa Rita est Reserve.

Forest Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 11th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - sixth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : DAVID J. HILL ,

Acting Secretary of State.

[ No. 15. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 12, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas , the San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserves, in the Territory of Arizona, were established by proclamation dated August seventeenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, under and by virtue

Preamble. Vol. 30, p. 1780.

1992

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 15 .

Vol. 26, p. 1103. of section twenty - four of the Act of Congress, approved March third,

eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-

culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United States may, from time to time , set apart and

reserve, in any State or Territory having public lands bearing forests,

in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reser-

vations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the

establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress , approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, "An act

making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such moui-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, within

the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserves, Ari-

zona, consolidated.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid acts of

Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that, for the purpose of consolidating into one reserve the lands heretofore embraced in the

said San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserves and of including therein

the other adjacent lands within the description hereinafter given, there

is hereby reserved and set apart as a public forest reservation all the

lands embraced within the following described boundaries and lying

Boundaries.

and being situate in the Territory of Arizona , to wit : Beginning at the north-west corner of Township twenty-two (22)
North, Range one (1) East, Gila and Salt River Meridian , Arizona ; thence southerly along the said meridian, allowing for the proper off-

set on the Fifth (5th) Standard Parallel North, to the south- west cor-

ner of Township nineteen (19) South, Range one (1 ) East ; thence

easterly along the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the point

for the north- west corner of Township eighteen (18) North , Range four (4) East ; thence southerly along the unsurveyed range line to its

intersection with the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North; thence easterly along said Parallel to the point for the north-west corner of

Township sixteen (16) North , Range five (5) East ; thence southerly to

the point for the south-west corner of said township; thence easterly to the point for the north-west corner of Township fifteen (15) North,

Range six (6) East; thence southerly to the point for the south-west corner of Section eighteen (18), said township; thence easterly along

the unsurveyed section line to the point for the north-west corner

of Section nineteen (19) , Township fifteen (15) North, Range seven (7) East; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the south-west corner of Section nineteen (19), Township fifteen (15 ) North , Range nine (9) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said Sec-

tion; thence easterly along the section line to the south-east corner of Section thirteen (13) , said township; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines to the south- east corner of Section one (1),

Township fifteen ( 15) North , Range eleven (11 ) East; thence northerly along the range line to its intersection with the Fourth (4th) Standard

Parallel North ; thence westerly along said parallel to the south- east

corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ;

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 15 , 16.

1993

thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the point for the north- east corner of Township eighteen ( 18) North, Range eleven (11 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Township nineteen (19) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence northerly along the range line to its intersection with the Fifth (5th) Standard Parallel North ; thence westerly along said parallel to the point for the south-east corner of Township twenty-one (21) North , Range nine (9) East; thence northerly along the unsurveyed range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Sixth (6th) Standard Parallel North, to the point for the north-east corner of Township twenty-five (25) North , Range nine (9) East; thence westerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the point for the north-west corner of Township twenty-five (25) North, Range three (3) East; thence southerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Sixth (6th) Standard Parallel North , to the north- east corner of Township twenty-two (22) North, Range two (2) East ; thence westerly along the township line to the north-west corner of Township twenty-two (22) North, Range one (1 ) East , to the place of beginning.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, That this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry , filing or settlement was made.
Provided further, That nothing herein shall give any force or effect to any claim or right to any of the lands heretofore embraced within the said San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserves which would not

Lands excepted .

have been entitled to recognition if said reserves as heretofore estab-

lished had been continued in force without this consolidation.

San Francisco

The reserve hereby created shall be known as the San Francisco Mountains Forest Re-

Mountains Forest Reserve.

serve.

Reserved from set-

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and of

[SEAL . ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 16. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 16, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", "That the President of the United States may , from time to time, set
apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public land bearing

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

1994

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 16.

forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public

reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Nebraska, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Ne-

braska.

Now, therefore , I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty -four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Nebraska and within the

Boundaries.

boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit: Beginning at the north- east corner of Section ten (10), Township
thirty-two (32) North, Range thirty (30) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Nebraska ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Sec-

tion six (6), said township; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

the south- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly along the quarter-section lines to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section five (5) , Township thirty-two (32) North, Range thirty-one (31 ) West; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section;

thence westerly along the township line to the north-west corner of

Section six (6) , Township thirty -two (32) North, Range thirty -three (33) West; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north - west

quarter of said section ; thence westerly along the quarter-section line

to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section two (2) , Township thirty-two (32) North, Range thirty - four (34) West ; thence southerly along the section lines to the south- west corner of Section

twenty -three (23) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-west

corner of Section thirty (30) , Township thirty-two (32) North , Range thirty-three (33) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-

three (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Section two (2) . Township thirty -one (31 ) North, Range thirty- three (33) West ; thence

southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

north- west corner of Section ten (10), Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range thirty- two (32) West; thence southerly to the south-west cor-

ner of the north- west quarter of Section three (3) , Township thirty (30) North, Range thirty- two (32) West; thence easterly along the

quarter-section lines to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section two (2), Township thirty (30) North, Range thirty - one (31 ) West ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Section thirty-five

(35 ) , Township thirty- one (31 ) North, Range thirty -one (31 ) West ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty - five (25), said township; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section

nineteen (19), Township thirty -one (31) North, Range thirty (30) West; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of said

section ; thence easterly along the quarter-section line to the south-

east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty (20) , said township; thence northerly along the quarter- section lines to the

north-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty -two (32), Township thirty- two (32) North, Range thirty (30) West; thence

westerly to the north- west corner of said quarter- section; thence northerly to the south west corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township; thence easterly along the quar-

ter- section lines to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 16 17.

1995

Section twenty - eight (28), said township ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section ten (10) , said township, the place of beginning. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to
make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- tlement. tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Niobrara esTt hReseNrivoeb.rara ForForest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[ SEAL . ]

Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- sixth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

[ No. 17. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 16, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or not , as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas , the public lands in the State of Nebraska, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation;
Now, therefore , I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve, Nebraska .
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty -four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts , pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Nebraska and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit: Beginning at the north- east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , Boundaries.

Township twenty - two (22) North, Range twenty- five (25) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian , Nebraska ; thence westerly to the south- east

corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to the

1996

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 17.

north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen (13) , Township twenty - two (22) North, Range twentysix (26) West; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of Section twelve (12), said township ; thence westerly along the quarter-section line to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section ten (10), said township; thence northerly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south -east corner of Section six (6), said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township twenty -three (23) North, Range twentyseven (27) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section twentyeight (28), said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty (20), said township; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section , thence westerly along the section lines to the northwest corner of Section twenty-three (23) , Township twenty -three (23) North, Range twenty- eight (28) West; thence southerly along the section lines to the south-west corner of Section two (2) , Township

twenty-two (22) North, Range twenty - eight (28) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence southerly along the range line to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of the north-west quarter of Section nineteen (19) , Town-

ship twenty-one (21 ) North, Range twenty- seven (27) West ; thence

easterly along the quarter quarter-section lines to the south-east cor-

ner of the north-east quarter of the north-east quarter of Section

twenty-three (23) , Township twenty-one (21 ) North, Range twenty -six (26) West; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve

(12) , said township; thence easterly to the south - east corner of said

section; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section five (5) , Township

twenty-one (21 ) North, Range twenty-five (25) West ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ;

thence easterly along the quarter- section lines to the south - east corner

of the north-east quarter of Section three (3) , said township ; thence

northerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section

twenty-seven (27), Township twenty-two (22) North, Range twenty-

Lands excepted.

five (25) West, the place of beginning. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

The Dismal River

Forest Reserve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Dismal

River Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty-sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 18 .

1997

[ No. 18. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 7, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, by an agreement between the Shoshone and Bannock
Indians of the Fort Hall Reservation in Idaho, on the one part and certain commissioners of the United States on the other part, ratified by act of Congress approved June 6 , 1900 (31 Stat. , 672) , the said
Indians ceded , granted, and relinquished to the United States all right, title , and interest which they had to the following described land, the same being a part of the land obtained through the treaty of Fort Bridger on the third day of July, eighteen hundred and sixty -eight, and ratified by the United States Senate on the sixteenth day of February, eighteen hundred and sixty -nine :

Preamble. Vol. 31, p. 672.

All that portion of the said reservation embraced within and lying east and south

of the following described lines :

Commencing

at

a

point

in

the

south

boundary

of

the

Fort

Hall

Indian

Reser-

Lands ceded by the Shoshone and Ban-

vation, being the southwest corner of township nine ( 9) south, range thirty-four nock Indians.

(34) east of the Boise meridian, thence running due north on the range line between

townships 33 and 34 east to a point two ( 2) miles north of the township line between

townships five ( 5 ) and six ( 6 ) south, thence due east to the range line between ranges

35 and 36 east, thence south on said range line four ( 4) miles, thence due east to the

east boundary line of the reservation; from this point the east and south boundaries

of the said reservation as it now exists to the point of beginning, namely, the south-

west corner of township nine ( 9) south, range thirty-four east, being the remainder

of the description and metes and bounds of the said tract of land herein proposed to be ceded."

Vol. 31, p. 672. And whereas, in pursuance of said act of Congress ratifying said

agreement, allotments of land have been regularly made to each Indian occupant who desired it, and a schedule has been made of the lands to

be abandoned and the improvements thereon appraised , and such improvements will be offered for sale to the highest bidder at not less

than the appraised price prior to the date fixed for the opening of the

ceded lands to settlement, and the classification as to agricultural and grazing lands has been made ;

And whereas, in the act of Congress ratifying said agreement it is

provided :

That on the completion of the allotments and the preparation of the schedule pro- Lands opened to vided for in the preceding section , and the classification of the lands as provided for setVtolle. m3e1n, tp. . 676. herein, the residue of said ceded lands shall be opened to settlement by the proclamation of the President, and shall be subject to disposal under the homestead, town.site, stone and timber, and mining laws of the United States only, excepting as to price and excepting the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in each Congressional township, which shall be reserved for common school purposes and be subject to the laws of Idaho : Provided, That all purchasers of lands lying under the canal of the Idaho Canal Company, and which are susceptible of irrigation from the water from said canal, shall pay for the same at the rate of ten dollars per acre; all agricultural lands not under said canal shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per acre, and grazing lands at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, one-fifth of the respective sums to be paid at time of original entry, and four- fifths thereof at the time of making final proof; but no purchaser shall be permitted in any manner to purchase more than one hundred and sixty acres of the land hereinbefore referred to; but the rights of honorably discharged Union soldiers and sailors, as defined and described in sections twenty-three hundred and four and twenty-three hundred and five of the Revised Statutes of the United States, shall not be abridged, except as to the sum to be paid as aforesaid.

*

*

*

*

*

*

No lands in sections sixteen and thirty-six now occupied, as set forth in article three of the agreement herein ratified shall be reserved for school purposes, but the State of Idaho shall be entitled to indemnity for any lands so occupied : Provided, That none of said lands shall be disposed of under the townsite laws for less than ten dollars per acre : And provided further, That all of said lands within five miles of the boundary line of the town of Pocatello shall be sold at public auction, payable as aforesaid, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior for not less than

1998

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 18.

ten dollars per acre : And provided further, That any mineral lands within said five mile limit shall be disposed of under the mineral land laws of the United States, excepting that the price of such mineral lands shall be fixed at ten dollars per acre, instead of the price fixed by the said mineral land laws.

And whereas, all the conditions required by law to be performed

prior to the opening of said lands to settlement and entry have been,

as I hereby declare, duly performed , except the sale of the improvements mentioned above, but as this is not considered a bar to the

opening of the unallotted and unreserved lands to settlement and

entry ,

Lands ceded by Shoshone and Bannock

Now, therefore , I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

JInudniea1n7s, o1p90e2n. to entry States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by law, do hereby declare and make known that all of the lands so as aforesaid

ceded by the Shoshone and Bannock Indians , saving and excepting all

lands allotted to the Indians, and saving and excepting the lands on

Exceptions .

which the Indian improvements have been appraised, and saving and excepting the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in each Congressional township, and saving and excepting Lots 7 and 8, section 21 , NW +

SW and Lots 9 and 10, section 22 , T. 9 S. , R. 38 E. , B. M. , known

Vol. 25, p. 452. Vol. 31, p. 676.

as " Lava Hot Springs " and saving and excepting all of the lands within five miles of the boundary line of the town of Pocatello , Idaho, and saving and excepting the lands ceded under the Act of September 1 , 1888 (25 Stat. , 452) , for the purposes of a townsite, will on the 17th day of June, 1902, at and after the hour of 12 o'clock, noon , (Mountain Standard time), be opened to settlement and entry under the terms of and subject to all the conditions, limitations , reservations, and restrictions contained in the statutes above specified , and the laws of the United States applicable thereto.
In view of the provision in said act " That all of said lands within five miles of the boundary line of the town of Pocatello shall be sold at public auction, payable as aforesaid, under the direction of the Secre-

tary of the Interior for not less than ten dollars per acre," the lands, within five miles of the boundary line of the town of Pocatello, "

Vol. 25, p. 452.

saving and excepting all lands allotted to the Indians, and saving and excepting the sixteenth and thirty - sixth sections in each Congressional township, and saving and excepting the lands ceded under the Act of

September 1 , 1888 (25 Stat. , 452) , for the purposes of a townsite , will on the 17th day of July, 1902 , at and after the hour of 12 o'clock, noon

(Mountain Standard time), be offered at public auction at not less than ten dollars per acre, under the terms and subject to all the conditions, limitations , reservations and restrictions , contained in the statutes

above specified , and the laws of the United States applicable thereto. Preference right of entry on neutral Because of the provision in the act ratifying said agreement that

strip." Vol. 31 , p. 680.

" The purchaser of said improvements shall have thirty days after such

purchase for preference right of entry, under the provisions of this

Act, of the lands upon which the improvements purchased by him are

situated, not to exceed one hundred and sixty acres, " the said lands

upon which such Indian improvements purchased are situated outside

of the lands within five miles of the town of Pocatello, shall for the

period of thirty days after said opening be subject to homestead entry, townsite entry, stone and timber entry, and entry under the mineral laws only by those who may have purchased the improvements thereon, and who are accorded a preference right of entry for thirty days as aforesaid, such entries to be made in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Act. Persons entitled to make entry under this

preference right will be permitted to do so at any time during the said period of thirty days following the opening, and at the expiration of that period any of said lands not so entered will come under the

general provisions of this proclamation. The purchaser of the improvements on lands situated within five

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 18, 19.

1999

miles of the town of Pocatello will have no preference right of entry of the tract on which such improvements are situated, as the law provides that " all of said lands within five miles of the boundary line of the town of Pocatello shall be sold at public auction . "
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington the 7th day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

Vol. 31, p. 476.

[No. 19. ]

May 22, 1902.

Whereas, the Yellowstone Park Timber Land Reserve , in the State of Wyoming, was established by proclamation dated March thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, and the boundary lines thereof were

Preamble.

corrected by proclamation dated September tenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , and the Teton Forest Reserve, in the State of Wyo-

ming, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, under and by virtue of section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture

Vol . 26, p. 1103.

laws, and for other purposes ", which provides , " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in

any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, " An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve , and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Wyoming, within the
limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as public reservations ;
Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United WyFoorest reservations, ming. States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid acts of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that, the executive

proclamations of March thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-one (26 Stat. , 1565) , September tenth, eighteen hundred and ninety- one (27 Stat. , 989) and February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven (29 Stat. , 906), are hereby superseded , it being one purpose of this proclamation to establish the two forest reserves hereinafter named in place of the reserves heretofore created by said execu-

Vol. 26, p. 1565. Vol . 27, p. 989. Vol. 29, p. 906.

2000

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 19.

tive proclamations; and, therefore, there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as Public Reservations all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyoming and within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit:

Yellowstone Forest Reserve.

THE YELLOWSTONE FOREST RESERVE.

Boundaries. Post, pp. 2006, 2030.

Beginning at the point where the eastern boundary line of the Yellowstone National Park intersects the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Montana; thence easterly along said state boundary line to the point for its intersection with the range line between Ranges one hundred and three ( 103) and one hundred and four (104) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian , Wyoming; thence southerly along said unsurveyed range line to the point for its intersection with the Fourteenth (14th) Standard Parallel North; thence easterly along said parallel to the north east corner of Township fiftysix (56) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West : thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township fifty-three (53) North, Range one hundred and four ( 104) West; thence westerly along the Thirteenth ( 13th) Standard Parallel North to the north-west corner of Township fifty - two (52) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West; thence southerly along the range line to the south-west corner of Township forty - nine (49) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence easterly along the Twelfth (12th) Standard Parallel North to the north - east corner of Section four (4), Township forty -eight (48) North, Range one hundred and four ( 104) West; thence southerly along the section lines to the south- east corner of Section thirty - three (33), said township; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Township forty-seven (47) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township forty-six (46) North, Range one hundred and three ( 103) West; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township forty- five ( 45) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West ; thence southerly . along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Eleventh (11th) Standard Parallel North, to its intersection with the southern boundary line of Big Horn County , Wyoming, as defined in Sec. 982 of the Revised Statutes of Wyoming ( 1899) ; thence , in a general northwesterly and northerly direction, along said county line to its intersection with the southern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park: thence, in an easterly and northerly direction , along the southern and eastern boundaries of said park to the point of intersection with the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Montana , the place of beginning, to be known as the Yellowstone Forest Reserve ;

Teton Forest Reserve.

THE TETON FOREST RESERVE .

Boundaries. Post, p. 2030.

Beginning at the point where the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Idaho intersects the southern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park; thence easterly along the southern boundary of said park to its intersection with the western boundary line of Big Horn County, Wyoming, as defined in Sec. 982 of the Revised Statutes of Wyoming (1899) ; thence, in a general southerly and southeasterly direction, along said county line to the north-west corner of the Wind River or Shoshone Indian Reservation ; thence, in a general southwesterly direction, along the western boundary of said reservation to its intersection with the township line between Townships forty-two (42) and forty-three (43) North ; thence westerly along said township line to the south-west corner of Township forty-three (43 ) North, Range one hun-

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 19.
dred and seven (107) West; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township forty-three (43) North , Range one hundred and nine (109) West; thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range one hundred and nine (109) West ; thence easterly along the Tenth ( 10th) Standard Parallel North to its intersection with the western boundary of the Wind River or Shoshone Indian Reservation; thence, in a southeasterly and southerly direction, along the western boundary of said reservation to the point for its intersection with the township line between Townships thirty; three (33 ) and thirty-four (34) North ; thence westerly along said surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township thirty- four (34) North, Range one hundred and nine (109) West; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3), said township; thence westerly to the south east corner of Township thirty-five (35 ) North , Range one hundred and ten (110) West; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four (34), Township thirty-six (36) North , Range one hundred and ten (110) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North to the south-east corner of Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range one hundred and ten (110) West; thence northerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township forty (40) North, Range one hundred and ten (110) West; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township; thence southerly along the range line to the south - east corner of Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range one hundred and eleven (111) West; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North to the north - east corner of Section (4) , Township thirty- six (36) North, Range one hundred and twelve (112) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Township thirty-five (35) North, Range one hundred and thirteen (113) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township thirty-three (33) North, Range one hundred and fourteen (114) West ; thence westerly along the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North to the north- east corner of Township thirty two (32) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West; thence southerly along the range line to the south- east corner of Township twenty-nine (29) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West ; thence westerly along the Seventh (7th) Standard Parallel North to the south- east corner of Township twenty-nine (29) North, Range one hundred and eighteen ( 118) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty-three (33) , Township thirty (30) North , Range one hundred and eighteen ( 118) West; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the north- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section sixteen (16) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of said quarter- section ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section five (5) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-one (31), Township thirty-one (31) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quartersection ; thence northerly along the quarter- section lines to the point of intersection with the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North; thence easterly along said parallel to the south-east corner of Township thirtythree (33) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly
VOL XXXII, PT 2--49

2001

2002

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 19 .

to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirtyfour (34), Township thirty- four (34) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quarter-section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty- one

Lands excepted .

(21), said township; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said quarter-section; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section eight (8), said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section five (5) , said township; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said quarter-section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quarter-section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty- one (31 ) , Township thirty-five (35) North , Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence westerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the range line to its intersection with the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North ; thence westerly along said parallel to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Idaho ; thence northerly along said state boundary line to the point where it intersects the southern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park, the place of beginning, to be known as The Teton Forest Reserve ; excepting and excluding from reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyoming and particularly described as follows, to wit:
Township forty (40) North, Range one hundred and sixteen ( 116 ) West; Townships forty-one (41) North, Ranges one hundred and fifteen (115) and one hundred and sixteen (116) West; and Townships fortytwo (42) North , Ranges one hundred and fifteen (115) and one hundred and sixteen (116) West.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, That this excep-

tion shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Provided further, That nothing herein shall give any force or effect to any claim or right to any of the lands heretofore embraced within the Yellowstone Park Timber Land Reserve or the Teton Forest

Reserve which would not have been entitled to recognition if said reserves as heretofore established had been continued in force without

Reserved from set- being merged into larger reserves as hereinbefore provided.

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and two , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 20.

2003

[No. 20. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 22, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Whereas , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con- Vol. 26, p. 1103.
gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one ,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof":

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Wyoming, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore , I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United miFnorge.st Reserve, Wyo-
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyoming and within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit :
Beginning at the point where the range line between Ranges seventy-

Boundaries.

six (76) and seventy-seven (77) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian,

Wyoming, intersects the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Colorado ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point where it intersects the range line between Ranges eighty (80) and eighty- one (81) West ; thence northerly along said range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel

North, to the south-east corner of Township fourteen (14) North, Range eighty - one (81) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of said township ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North , to the north-west corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range eightyone (81 ) West ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North to the south-west corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range seventy-

nine (79) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township seventeen (17) North, Range seventy-eight (78) West ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North, to the south- east corner of Section thirty -two (32) , Township fifteen (15) North, Range seventy-

eight (78) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township fourteen (14) North, Range eighty (80) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly along the township line to the north-east corner of Township thirteen (13) North, Range seventy- seven (77) West ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel North, to the point where it intersects the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Colorado , the place of beginning.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

Lands excepted.

2004

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 20, 21 .

United States Land Office , or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The Medicine Bow

Forest Reserve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Medicine

Bow Forest Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[SEAL. ]

Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

May 22, 1902.

[No. 21. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 29, p . 909.
Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas, The Big Horn Forest Reserve, in the State of Wyoming. was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, under and by virtue of section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety- one, entitled , " An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides , "That the President

of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or

Vol. 30, p. 36.

undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas , it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled,

"An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred

and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has

been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating

Vol. 31 , p. 1976. such reserve " ; under which provision , the boundary lines of the said

forest reserve were changed and enlarged by proclamation dated June

twenty-ninth, nineteen hundred ;

The Big Horn Forest Reserve, Wyo-

Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

ming.

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved

from entry or settlement, and added to and made a part of the afore-

said Big Horn Forest Reserve, all those certain tracts, pieces or par-

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 21 , 22.

2005

cels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyoming and

particularly described as follows , to wit: Boundaries en-
The west half of Township fifty-six (56) North, Range eighty-seven larged.

(87) West; all of Townships fifty-five (55) and fifty- six (56) North ,
Range eighty- eight (88) West ; and the south half of Township fiftyseven (57) North, Range eighty-eight ( 88) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Wyoming.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof , embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, That this excep-

tion shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless
the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law
under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of May , in the year of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and two , and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- sixth.
By the President : JOHN HAY

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

[No. 22. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 29, 1902 .

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, by Executive Order dated December 27, 1875 , Section 7, township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino Meridian , California, was with certain other tracts of land withdrawn from the public domain and reserved for the use of the Captain Grande band or Village of Mission Indians ; and
Whereas, the Commission appointed under the provisions of the Act of Congress approved January 12, 1891 , entitled " An act for the relief of the Mission Indians in the State of California " , (U. S. Statutes at Large, vol. 26, page 712) selected for the said Captain Grande band or village of Indians certain tracts of land and intentionally omitted and excluded from such selection the said section 7, township
15 south, range 2 east, and reported that the tracts thus omitted included the lands upon which were found the claims of Jacob Khner and others ; and
Whereas, the report and recommendations of the said Commission
were approved by Executive Order dated December 29 , 1891 , which Order also directed that "All of the lands mentioned in said report
are hereby withdrawn from settlement and entry until patents shall have issued for said selected reservations, and until the recommenda-
tions of said Commission shall be fully executed, and, by the proclamation of the President of the United States, the lands or any part
thereof shall be restored to the public domain "; and

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 712.

2006

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 22, 23.

Whereas a patent was issued March 10, 1894 , to the said Indians for the lands selected by the Commission as aforesaid and which patent alsc excluded the said Section 7 , township 15 south, range 2 east; and

Whereas it appears that the said Jacob Khner can not make the

requisite filings on the land occupied by him until it shall have been

formally restored to the public domain , and that no good reason appears

to exist for the further reservation of the said section for the said

band of Indians :

Land in California

restored to public do- Now, therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

main.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested, do hereby declare and

make known that the Executive Orders dated December 27 , 1875 and

December 29, 1891 are so far modified as to except from their provi-

sions Section 7 of township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino meridian, and the said section is hereby restored to the public domain .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 29 day of May in the year of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and two , and of the

[SEAL . ]

Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 23. ]

June 13, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Ante, p. 1999. Post, p. 2030. Vol . 26, p. 1103.
Vol. 30, p. 36.

Whereas, The Yellowstone Forest Reserve , in the State of Wyoming, was established by proclamation dated May twenty-second, nineteen hundred and two, under the provisions of the acts of March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes " , and June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, " An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, and for other purposes ", superseding the Yellowstone Park Timber Land Reserve:"

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Wyoming , hereinafter

described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the

public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands :
Yellowstone Forest Now, therefore , I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United Reserve, Wyoming.
States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid acts of

Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement, and added to and made a part of the aforesaid Yellowstone Forest Reserve , all those certain tracts,

pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyo-

Area added.

ming and particularly described as follows, to wit: Sections one ( 1 ) , two (2) and three (3), Township forty -eight (48)

North, Range one hundred and four (104) West; and all of Township

forty-nine (49) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West , Sixth

Lands excepted.

(6th) Principal Meridian, Wyoming. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 23, 24.

2007

United States Land Office , or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is

hereby expressly given

to

all

persons

not to make

settle-

Reserved tlement.

from

set-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the

seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 13th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and two , and of

[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty - sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 24. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 23, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.
Preamble. Whereas, in the opening of the Kiowa, Comanche , Apache, and Ante, p. 1977. Wichita Indian lands in the Territory of Oklahoma, by proclamation
dated July 4, 1901 , pursuant to section six of the Act of Congress Vol. 31 , pp. 672, 676 approved June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. , 672 , 676) , the west half of the south-
east quarter of the southeast quarter and lot fourteen , of section sixteen in township seven north, of range ten west of the Indian principal meridian, containing thirty eight acres and sixty hundredths of an acre, were reserved for the use of the Kiowa and Comanche Indian Agency ;
And whereas , it appears that said land is no longer used or required for use by said Indian agency, and that it adjoins the City of Anadarko , Oklahoma Territory, and is needed by said city for park pur-
poses, the mayor of which city has applied to make entry thereof for Vol. 26, p. 502. said purposes under the act of Congress approved September 30 , 1890 (26 Stat., 502).
Kiowa and ComanNow, therefore , I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United che Indian Agency. States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section six of said act Land restored to
public domain for of Congress of June 6 , 1900, do hereby declare and make known that park purposes at Ana-
said land is hereby restored to the public domain, to be disposed of darko City, Okla. to said city for park purposes under said act of Congress approved September 30, 1890.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 23rd day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty sixth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : DAVID J. HILL,
Acting Secretary of State.

2008

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 25.

June 28, 1902.

[No. 25. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 27, p. 993.
Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas, the White River Plateau Timber Land Reserve , in the State of Colorado, was established by proclamation dated October sixteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, under and by virtue of sec-

tion twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-

culture laws, and for other purposes", which provides, " That the President of the United States may, from time to time , set apart and

reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests,

in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reser-

vations, and the President shall , by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved

June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act

making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve" ; White River Forest Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United Reserve, Colorado.
States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid White River Plateau Timber Land Reserve are hereby

New boundaries.

changed so as to read as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) ,

Township five (5 ) North, Range ninety - one (91 ) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly along the section lines to the north-east corner of Section twenty- nine (29) , Township five (5) North, Range ninety (90) West; thence southerly to the south-east corner ofsaid section ; thence easterly along the section lines to the north-east corner of

Section thirty-five (35), said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section; thence easterly along the First ( 1st) Correction Line North to the north-east corner of Township four (4) North, Range

ninety (90) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines to the north- west

cornerof Section twelve ( 12) , Township three (3 ) North, Range ninety (90) West; thence easterly along the section lines to the south- west corner of

Section four (4) , Township three (3) North , Range eighty -nine (89) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21) , Township four (4) North, Range eighty- nine (89) West; thence easterly along the section lines to the north- east corner of

Section twenty- four (24) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of

Section six (6), Township three (3) North , Range eighty-eight ( 88 ) West; thence southerly along the section lines to the north- west corner of

Section seventeen (17) , said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-

one (21 ), said township; thence southerly along the section lines to the

north-west corner of Section thirty-four (34), said township ; thence

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 25.
easterly along the section lines to the north-east corner of Section thirty- six (36), said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , said township; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north west corner of said section; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen (14), said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section ten (10) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , said township; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- west corner of Section nine (9) , Township four (4) North, Range eighty-eight (88) West; thence westerly along the First (1st) Correction Line North to the south- west corner of Section thirty-four (34), Township five (5) North, Range eighty - nine (89) West; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township; thence easterly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , Township five (5) North, Range eighty-six (86)West ; thence southerly along the range line , allowing for the proper offsets on the First (1st) Correction Line North and on the Base Line, to the south-east corner of Township two (2) South, Range eighty-six (86) West; thence westerly along the township line to the north- east corner of Section four (4), Township three (3) South, Range eighty-seven (87) West ; thence southerly along the section lines to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township four (4) South , Range eighty-seven (87) West; thence westerly along the township line to the south- west corner of Township four (4) South, Range ninety-one (91) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said township; thence westerly along the township line to the south- west corner of Township three (3) South, Range ninety-three (93) West ; thence northerly along the range line to the north-west corner of Township two (2) South, Range ninety-three (93) West; thence easterly along the township line to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township one (1 ) South, Range ninety-two (92) West; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-six (26) , Township one (1 ) South, Range ninetyone (91) West ; thence southerly along the quarter-section lines to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two (2), Township two (2) South, Range ninety -one (91) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence southerly along the quarter-section lines to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirteen (13) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines to the southwest corner of the south-east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township two (2) South, Range ninety (90) West ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the north-west corner of the north -east quarter of Section six (6), said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township one (1) South, Range ninety (90) West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-
five (25) , Township one (1) South , Range ninety -one (91) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south - east quarter of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen (13), said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

2009

2010

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 25.

north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the Base Line to the south- west corner of Township one (1) North, Range ninety (90) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtyone (31), said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-

west quarter of Section twenty -nine (29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-eight (28), said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty- two (22) , said township; thence easterly to the northeast corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section fifteen (15) , said township ; thence westerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section nineteen (19), said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , Township one (1) North, Range ninety-one (91 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty -six (26) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four (34) , said township; thence westerly along the Base Line to the north-west corner of Township one (1) South, Range ninety -one (91 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twelve (12) , Township one (1 ) South, Range ninety -two (92) West; thence westerly along the section lines to the south-west corner

of Section ten (10) , said township ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- west corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence easterly along the Base Line to the south-west corner of Section

thirty -four (34) , Township one (1) North , Range ninety - two (92) West ; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed section lines to the point for the intersection with the township line between Townships two (2) and three (3) North; thence easterly along the said township line to the south-west corner of Section thirty -four (34), Township three (3) North, Range ninety -one (91 ) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north-west corner of Section ten (10), Township four (4) North, Range ninety-one (91) West ; thence westerly along the First (1st) Correction Line North to the south- west corner of Section

thirty-four (34), Township five (5) North , Range ninety- one (91 ) West ;

thence northerly along the section lines to the north-west corner

of Section twenty-seven (27), said township , the place of beginning. Date of opening to The lands hereby excluded from the reservation and restored to the settlement.
public domain shall be open to settlement from date hereof, but shall

not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days

Name changed.

notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
This reservation shall hereafter be known as the White River Forest

Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 28th day of June, in the year

of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and two , and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- sixth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 26.

2011

[No. 26.] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
A PROCLAMATION.

July 1 , 1902.

Whereas, The President on August 20 , 1901 , issued his proclamation stating that he has been advised by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition Commission , pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of the Act of Congress approved March 3, 1901 , entitled "An Act To provide for celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the purchase of the Louisiana Territory by the United States by holding an international exhibition of arts , industries, manufactures and the products of the soil , mine, forest and sea in the City of St. Louis, in the State of Missouri ", that provision had been made for grounds and buildings for the uses specified in the said mentioned act of Congress ;
Whereas, it was declared and proclaimed by the President in his aforesaid proclamation that such international exhibition would be opened in the City of St. Louis , in the State of Missouri , not later than the first day of May, 1903, and be closed not later than the first day of December thereafter;

Ante, p. 1986. Vol . 31 , p. 1442 .

And Whereas, section 8 of the Act of Congress approved June 28 , 1902 , entitled " An Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, one thou-

Ante, p. 446.

sand nine hundred and three, and for other purposes ", fixes a subse-

quent date for the holding of the said international exhibition and spe-

cifically states that said commission shall provide for the dedication of the

buildings of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition , in said city of St.

Louis, not later than the thirtieth day of April, nineteen hundred and

three, with appropriate ceremonies, and thereafter said exposition shall

be opened to visitors at such time as may be designated by said company, subject to the approval of said commission, not later than the

first day of May, nineteen hundred and four, and shall be closed at such time as the national commission may determine, subject to the approval

of said company, but not later than the first day of December thereafter":
Now, Therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United ExLpoousiistiiaonna. Purchase States, do hereby declare and proclaim the aforesaid provision of law Postponement of. to the end that it may definitely and formally be known that such inter-

national exhibition will be opened in the City of St. Louis , in the State
of Missouri, not later than May 1 , 1904 , and will be closed not later than December 1st of that year.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , the 1st day of July one thousand
nine hundred and two, and of the independence of the [SEAL. ] United States the one hundred and twenty- sixth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT By the President:
DAVID J. HILL, Acting Secretary of State.

2012

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 27.

July 2 , 1902.

[No. 27. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, within

the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation;

Forest Reserve , Arizona.

Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona , and within

Boundaries.

the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit: Beginning at the north-west corner of Township thirteen ( 13) South,

Range fourteen (14) East, Gila and Salt River Meridian, Arizona;

thence northerly to the point for the north-west corner of Section nineteen (19) , Township twelve ( 12) South , Range fourteen (14) East; thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township; thence

northerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the

north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township; thence easterly to the point for the north-east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the point for the north-west corner of Township eleven (11)

South, Range fifteen (15) East ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel South to the point for the north- east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the point for the south-east corner of

Section thirteen (13) , said township; thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the north-east corner of Section twenty -four

(24) , Township eleven (11) South , Range seventeen (17) East ; thence southerly along the unsurveyed range line to the point for the southeast corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirteen (13) South, Range seventeen ( 17) East; thence westerly along the unsurveyed section

Lands excepted.

lines to the point for the south- west corner of Section seven (7),
Township thirteen (13) South, Range fifteen (15) east ; thence northerly to the point for the north- west corner of said township ; thence
westerly to the north-west corner of Township thirteen (13) South,
Range fourteen (14) East, the place of beginning. Excepting fromthe force and effect of this proclamation all lands which
may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office , or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 27, 28.

2013

Reserved from setWarning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

The Santa Catalina

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Santa Forest Reserve.

Catalina Forest Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and of the

[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- sixth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 28. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

July 3, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, satisfactory proof has been given to me by the Govern- Preamble.

ment of Cuba that no discriminating duties of tonnage or imposts are

imposed or levied in the ports of Cuba, upon vessels wholly belong-

ing to citizens of the United States or upon the produce, manufac-

tures , or merchandise imported in the same from the United States ,

or from any foreign country:

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

Cuba. Suspension of dis-

States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section ectrci.m, idnuattiiesn.g tonnage, four thousand two hundred and twenty-eight of the Revised Statutes R. S. , sec. 4228, p . 814.

of the United States, do hereby declare and proclaim that, from and

after the date of this, my Proclamation , so long as vessels of the

United States and their cargoes shall be exempt from discriminating

duties as aforesaid, any such duties on Cuban vessels entering the

ports of the United States, or on the produce, manufactures, or mer-

chandise imported in such vessels, shall be suspended and discontin-

ued, and no longer.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, the 3rd day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-sixth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

2014

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 29.

[No. 29. ]

July 4, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas, Many of the inhabitants of the Philippine Archipelago were in insurrection against the authority and sovereignty of the Kingdom of Spain at divers times from August, 1896, until the cession of the archipelago by that Kingdom to the United States of America ,
and since such cession many of the persons so engaged in insurrection have until recently resisted the authority and sovereignty of the United States; and

Whereas, The insurrection against the authority and sovereignty of the United States is now at an end , and peace has been established in all parts of the archipelago, except in the country inhabited by the Moro tribes, to which this proclamation does not apply; and
Whereas, During the course of the insurrection against the King-

dom of Spain and against the Government of the United States, persons engaged therein , or those in sympathy with and abetting them, committed many acts in violation of the laws of civilized warfare; but it is believed that such acts were generally committed in ignorance of those laws, and under orders issued by the civil or insurrectionary leaders ; and

Whereas, It is deemed to be wise and humane, in accordance with the beneficent purposes of the Government of the United States

towards the Filipino peop e , and conducive to peace, order, and loyalty among them, that the doers of such acts who have not already suffered

punishment shall not be held criminally responsible, but shall be

relieved from punishment for participation in these insurrections and

for unlawful acts committed during the course thereof by a general

amnesty and pardon;

Amnesty to Philippine insurrectionists.

Now, therefore , be it known that I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Pres-

ident of the United States of America, by virtue of the power and

authority vested in me by the Constitution , do hereby proclaim and declare without reservation or condition , except as hereinafter pro-

vided, a full and complete pardon and amnesty to all persons in the Philippine Archipelago who have participated in the insurrections aforesaid or who have given aid and comfort to persons participating in said insurrections for the offenses of treason or sedition and for all

offenses political in their character committed in the course of such

insurrections pursuant to orders issued by the civil or military insur-

Exceptions.

rectionary authorities, or which grew out of internal political feuds or dissensions, between Filipinos and Spaniards, or the Spanish authorities, or which resulted from internal political feuds or dissensions among the Filipinos themselves during either of said insurrections.
Provided, however, That the pardon and amnesty hereby granted shall not include such persons committing crimes since May 1 , 1902, in any province of the archipelago in which at the time civil government was established , nor shall it include such persons as have been

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 29, 30.

2015

heretofore finally convicted of the crimes of murder, rape, arson or

robbery, by any military or civil tribunal organized under the authority

of Spain,

or of the United

States of America ,

but special

application

Special application for pardon.

may be made to the proper authority for pardon by any person belong-

ing to the exempted classes and such clemency as is consistent with

humanity and justice will be liberally extended ; and

Certain property

Further provided, That this amnesty and pardon shall not affect the rights, etc., not

title or right of the Government of the United States, or that of the affected.

Philippine Islands to any property or property rights heretofore used or appropriated by the military or civil authorities of the Government

of the United States, or that of the Philippine Islands , organized under

authority of the United States by way of confiscation or otherwise ; and

Provided further, that every person who shall seek to avail himself Oath.

of this proclamation shall take and subscribe the following oath before

any authority in the Philippine Archipelago authorized to administer oaths , namely :

"I,

solemnly swear (or affirm ) that I recognize and accept the

supreme authority of the United States of America in the Philippine Islands and

will maintain true faith and allegiance thereto ; that I impose upon myself this

obligation voluntarily without mental reservation or purpose of evasion. So help me God."

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington, the 4th day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-seventh . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY
Secretary of State.

[ No. 30. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 16 , 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, The Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, in the State of Wyoming , was established by proclamation dated May twenty- second, nineteen hundred and two, under and by virtue of section twenty- four of the Act of Congress , approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws , and for other purposes " , which provides, " That the President of the United
States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , entitled, " An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes ", that "The President is hereby author-
ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;
And whereas , the public lands in the State of Wyoming, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

Preamble. Ante, p. 2003. Vol. 26, p. 1103 .
Vol . 30, p . 36.

2016

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 30.

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Medicine Bow For- Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United est Reserve, Wyo-

ming .

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the

aforesaid Medicine Bow Forest Reserve are hereby changed so as to

read as follows:

New boundaries.

Beginning at the north-west corner of Township seventeen (17) North.

Range eighty - one ( 81 ) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Wyoming:

thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township

seventeen (17) North, Range eighty (80) West ; thence easterly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section twenty-five (25),

said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township seventeen (17 ) North, Range seventy-nine (79) West; thence easterly

along the township line to the north-east corner of Section five (5),

Township seventeen (17) North, Range seventy- eight (78) West; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North , to the south- east corner of Sec-

tion thirty- two (32), Township fourteen (14) North, Range seventyeight (78) West; thence easterly along the township line to the northeast corner of Section four (4) , Township thirteen (13) North , Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence southerly along the section lines,

allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel

North, to the point of intersection with the boundary line between the

States of Wyoming and Colorado ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point of intersection with the range line between Ranges eighty (80) and eighty-one (81 ) West; thence northerly along

said range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Township fourteen

(14) North, Range eighty-one (81 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said township; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel

North, to the north- west corner of Township seventeen ( 17 ) North,

Lands excepted.

Range eighty-one (81) West, the place of beginning. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been

made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception

shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the

entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under

which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

Date of opening to settlement.

The lands hereby excluded from the said reserve and restored to the

public domain shall be open to settlement from date hereof, but shall

not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and two , and of the
[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 31.

2017

[No. 31. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 22, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress , approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled,
An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests , in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

Preamble. Vol. 26 , p. 1103.

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, within

the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber , and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore ,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

President

of

the United

Forest reserve , Arizona .

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts , pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona, and within

the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit: Boundaries.
Beginning at the south - west corner of Section twenty -one (21 ) , Town-

ship seven (7) South, Range twenty-two (22) East, Gila and Salt River

Meridian, Arizona ; thence easterly along the section lines to the south-

east corner of Section twenty-four (24), said township ; thence southerly

to the south-west corner of Township seven (7) South, Range twenty-

three (23 ) East ; thence easterly along the township line to the north-west

corner of Township eight (8) South, Range twenty- five (25) East; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ;

thence easterly along the section lines to the south-east corner of Sec-

tion nine (9) , said township; thence southerly along the section lines

to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence south-

erly along the surveyed and unsurveyed section lines to the point for the intersection with the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel South ; thence

westerly along the said parallel to the south- east corner of Township

ten ( 10) South, Range twenty -three (23 ) East ; thence northerly along the range line to the point of intersection with the southern boundary

of the Camp Grant Military Reservation ; thence in a general north-

easterly, north -westerly and south- westerly direction along the bound-

ary of the said military reservation to the point of intersection with

the township line between Townships eight ( 8) and nine (9 ) South ;

thence westerly along the said township line to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township eight ( 8) South, Range twenty-

two (22) East ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- east

corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township; thence westerly to

the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east

corner of Section twenty-one (21), said township; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the sec-

tion lines to the south- west corner of Section twenty- one (21 ) , Township

seven (7) South, Range twenty -two (22) East, the place of beginning.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -50

2018

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 31 , 32.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set- Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settletlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

Mount Graham Forest Reserve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Mount

Graham Forest Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 22nd day of July , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-seventh.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 32. ]

July 26, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol 26, p. 1103.

Whereas , it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico,

within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with tim-

ber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, New Mexico.

Now, Therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

Description.

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the Territory of New Mexico and particularly described as follows, to wit:
Township seven (7) South, Ranges eleven (11) and twelve ( 12) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian , New Mexico ; sections thirteen (13) to thirty-six (36), both inclusive, Township seven (7) South, Range thirteen ( 13) East ; Township seven (7) South , Ranges fourteen (14) and fifteen (15 ) East ; Sections thirteen (13) to thirty- six (36) , both inclusive, Township seven (7) South, Ranges sixteen (16) and seventeen (17) East ; Township eight (8) South, Ranges eleven (11) and twelve ( 12) East ; Sections one (1 ) to ten (10) , both inclusive , and fifteen (15) to eighteen ( 18) , both inclusive, Township eight (8) South, Range thirteen (13) East ; Sections one (1 ) to twenty (20) , both inclusive, and the North half of Sections twenty -nine (29) and thirty (30) , Township

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 32 , 33. #

2019

eight (8) South, Range fourteen (14) East ; Township eight (8) South, Ranges fifteen (15) , sixteen (16) and seventeen (17) East ; Township nine (9) South, Ranges ten (10), eleven (11) and twelve (12) East ; Township nine (9) South, Range seventeen (17) East ; Township ten (10) South, Ranges nine (9), ten ( 10) , eleven (11 ) and twelve (12) East; Sections seventeen (17) to twenty (20), both inclusive , and twenty-nine (29) to thirty-two (32), both inclusive, Township ten (10) South , Range thirteen (13) East; Township eleven (11 ) South, Range nine and one-half (94) East; all of Township eleven (11 ) South, Range ten (10) East, which is not included in the Mescalero Apache Indian Reservation ; Sections five (5) to eight (8) , both inclusive, Sections seventeen (17) to twenty (20) , both inclusive, and Sections twenty-nine (29) to thirty-two (32), both inclusive, Township eleven (11) South, Range thirteen (13) East ; Township twelve (12) South, Range ten (10) East ; Township thirteen (13) South, Ranges ten (10) and eleven (11) East.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

Lands excepted.

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- tlement.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The Lincoln Forest

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Lincoln Reserve.

Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 26th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-seventh . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President: DAVID J. HILL,

Acting Secretary of State.

[ No. 33. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 30, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress , approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes" , "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not , as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona , within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Preamble. Vol . 26, p. 1103.

2020

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 33.

Forest reserve, Arizona .

Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as

a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land

lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona, and within the

Boundaries.

boundaries particularly described as follows, to -wit : Beginning at the north-east corner of Section three (3) . Township
sixteen (16) South, Range twenty-nine (29) East, Gila and Salt River

Meridian, Arizona ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd) Standard

Parallel South to the north-west corner of Township sixteen (16 ) South,

Range thirty-one (31 ) East ; thence southerly along the range line to the north- west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township seventeen ( 17) South, Range thirty -one (31 ) East; thence easterly along the section lines to the north-east corner of Section twenty -nine (29) , said town-

ship; thence southerly along the section lines to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two (32), said township ; thence easterly along the

township line to the south-east corner of Section thirty- three (33) , said township ; thence southerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the

point for the south-east corner of Section nine (9) , Township nineteen

(19) South, Range thirty-one (31 ) East ; thence westerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the south-west corner of

Section eight (8) , said township; thence southerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the south-east corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township; thence westerly to the point for the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly along the range line to

the south-east corner of Section twelve (12), Township twenty (20 ) South, Range thirty (30) East ; thence westerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section fifteen (15) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section; thence westerly

along the section lines to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18). said township; thence northerly along the range line to the south - east

corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-four ( 24), Township nineteen (19) South, Range twenty-nine (29) East; thence westerly

along the surveyed and unsurveyed quarter-section lines to the point for the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty (20), said township; thence northerly along the unsurveyed quarter-

section lines to the point for the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section eight (8), said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed section lines to the north-west corner of Section thirty-

two (32) , Township eighteen (18) South, Range twenty -nine (29) East : thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-eight (28) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-one (21), said

township ; thence easterly to the point for the south- west corner of Section fourteen (14), said township ; thence northerly to the point for the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

east corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly along the quarter- section lines to the south-west corner of the north-

west quarter of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence northerly along the range line to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Sec-

tion eighteen (18 ) , Township seventeen (17 ) South , Range twenty-nine (29) East; thence easterly along the quarter-section lines to the northwest corner of the south-west quarter of Section fifteen (15) , said township; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- west

corner of the south-west quarter of Section ten (10), said township ;

thence easterly along the quarter- section lines to the north-east corner

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 33 , 34.

2021

of the south- east quarter of Section eleven (11), said township ; thence
southerly to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of the
south- west quarter of Section twelve (12) , said township; thence easterly tothe north-east corner of the south-east quarter of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the range line to the north-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south- east
corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty -six (36) , Township sixteen (16) South, Range twenty-nine (29) East; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- east corner
of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-six (26) , said township; thence westerly to the north -west corner of the south- east quarter of said section; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the north - west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north - east corner of Section three (3) , said township, the place of beginning.
Lands excepted . Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper
United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry , filing or settlement was made.
Reserved from setWarning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The Chiricahua The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Chiricahua Forest Reserve. Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 30th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and of

[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - seventh .

By the President :

T. ROOSEVELT

DAVID J. HILL ,

Acty Secretary of State.

[No. 34. ] PROCLAMATION .

August 8, 1902.

Whereas the act of Congress entitled " An Act to ratify and confirm a supplemental agreement with the Creek tribe of Indians, and for other purposes, " approved on the thirtieth day of June, nineteen hundred and two , contains a provision as follows :
That the following supplemental agreement, submitted by certain commissioners of the Creek tribe of Indians, as herein amended , is hereby ratified and confirmed on the part of the United States, and the same shall be of full force and effect if ratfied by the Creek tribal council on or before the first day of September, nineteen hundred and two, .

Preamble. Ante, p. 500.

And Whereas the principal chief of the said tribe has transmitted to me an act of the Creek national council entitled "An Act to ratify and confirm a supplemental agreement with the United States"

2022

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 34, 35.

approved the twenty-sixth day of July, nineteen hundred and two, which contains a provision as follows:
That the following supplemental agreement by and between the United States and the Muskogee ( or Creek) Tribe of Indians, in Indian Territory, ratified and confirmed on the part of the United States by Act of Congress approved June 30, 1902 (Public-No. 200. ) , is hereby ratified on the part of the Muskogee ( or Creek) Nation, 

And Whereas paragraph twenty-two provides as follows :

Ante, p. 505.

The principal chief, as soon as practicable after the ratification of this agreement by Congress, shall call an extra session of the Creek Nation council and submit this agreement, as ratified by Congress, to such council for its consideration, and if the agreement be ratified by the National council, as provided in the constitution of the tribe, the principal chief shall transmit to the President of the United States a cer-
tified copy of the act of the council ratifying the agreement, and thereupon the President shall issue his proclamation making public announcement of such ratification, thenceforward all the provisions of this agreement shall have the force and effect of law.

Agreement with Creek Indiansratified .

Now, Therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, do hereby declare said agreement duly ratified and that all the

provisions thereof became law according to the terms thereof upon the twenty-sixth day of July, nineteen hundred and two.

In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washingtion this 8th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and
[SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty -sixth. By the President :

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

August 16, 1902.

[No. 35. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled,

An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time , set apart

and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part coveredwith

timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public

reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

Forest reserve reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Montana.

Now, therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the

Boundaries.

boundaries particulariy described as follows, to wit : Beginning at the south- east corner of Township sixteen (16) North,

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 35.

2023

Range ten (10) East, Principal Meridian , Montana ; thence southerly

to the point for the north-west corner of Township fourteen (14) North, Range eleven (11 ) East ; thence easterly to the point for the north-east corner of Section four (4), said township ; thence southerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed section lines to the point for the south- east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirteen (13) North, Range eleven (11) East; thence southerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel

North, to the point for the south-east corner of Township twelve (12)

North, Range eleven (11 ) East; thence easterly along the unsurveyed township line to the point for the north-east corner of Township eleven (11) North, Range thirteen ( 13) East; thence southerly along the range line to the south- west corner of Township ten (10) North, Range fourteen (14) East; thence westerly along the township line to the point for the south-west corner of Township ten (10) North, Range ten (10)

East; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township; thence westerly to the point for the south-west corner of Section thirtyfour (34) , Township eleven (11 ) North, Range nine (9) East; thence northerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the northwest corner of Section three (3), said township ; thence westerly to the

point for the north-west corner of said township; thence northerly along the unsurveyed range line to the point for its intersection with the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel North ; thence westerly along said unsurveyed parallel to the point for the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township thirteen ( 13) North , Range eight (8) East ; thence northerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ;

thence westerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the south-west corner of Section eighteen (18), said township; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the southeast corner of Township sixteen (16) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence easterly along the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the south-east corner of Township sixteen (16) North, Range ten (10) East, the place of beginning.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office , or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to
settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as The
Belt Mountains Forest Reserve.

make Little

Reserved from settlement.
The Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of August , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and
[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

2024

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 36.

August 16, 1902.

[ No. 36. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103 .

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, enti-

tled , " An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing

forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or not, as public

reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Montana.

Now, therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim

that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts , pieces or parcels of

Boundaries.

land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit:
Beginning at the point where the western boundary of the Yellowstone National Park intersects the boundary line between the States of

Montana and Idaho ; thence in a general north-westerly and south-

westerly direction along said state boundary line to the point for its

intersection with the range line between Ranges one (1) and two (2) East; thence northerly along the unsurveyed range line to the point

for the south-east corner of Township thirteen (13) South, Range one (1) East; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township twelve (12) South, Range one (1) West ; thence westerly along the township line to the south-east corner of Township twelve (12) South, Range six (6)

West; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said Township;

thence easterly to the point for the north- east corner of Township

twelve (12 ) South, Range five (5) West ; thence northerly along the

surveyed and unsurveyed range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel South, to the north-west corner of

Township ten (10) South, Range four (4) West ; thence easterly to the

south -east corner of Section thirty-three (33), Township nine (9) South, Range four (4) West ; thence northerly to the north- west cor-

ner of Section fifteen (15) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , said township ; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the north-west corner

of Township seven (7) South , Range three (3) West; thence easterly

to the north- east corner of said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Township eight (8) South, Range one (1 ) West ; thence south-

erly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the

south- east corner of said township; thence southerly along the Principal Meridian to its intersection with the Second (2nd) Standard

Parallel South; thence easterly along said surveyed and unsurveyed

parallel to the point for its intersection with the western boundary of the Yellowstone National Park ; thence southerly along the western

boundary of said park to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Montana and Idaho, the place of beginning.

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 36, 37.

2025

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made . Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- tlement.
tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The Madison Forest
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Madison Reserve. Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

[ No. 37. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 20, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty - four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one , entitled, An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may , from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof":

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

And whereas, the following described public lands in the Territory
of Alaska are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Forest Now, therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United Alaska. States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty - four of
the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from settlement, entry or sale, and set
apart as a Public Reservation , Chichagof Island and the adjacent islands to the seaward thereof, Kupreanof Island , Kuiu Island,
Zarembo Island, and Price of Wales Island and the adjacent islands to the seaward thereof, in Alaska : Provided, that this proclamation shall not be so construed as to deprive any person of any valid right

reserve,

possessed under the Treaty for the cession of the Russian possessions in North America to the United States, concluded at Washington on
the thirtieth day of March, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven , or

2026

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 37 , 38.

acquired under any act of Congress relating to the Territory of

Alaska.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to unlawfully

enter upon or occupy any of the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The Alexander Archipelago Forest Re-

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Alexander

serve.

Archipelago Forest Reserve.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 20th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and

[SEAL . ]

of the Independence of the United States the hundred and twenty-seventh .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President: ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

[No. 38. ]

September 4, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Ante, p. 1975.

Whereas, in the opening of the Kiowa, Comanche, Apache, and Wichita Indian lands in the Territory of Oklahoma, by proclamation

Vol . 31 , pp. 672, 676. dated July 4, 1901 , pursuant to section six of the act of Congress

approved June 6 , 1900 (31 Stat. , 672, 676) , the southwest quarter of

the northwest quarter of section nineteen in township two north, of

range eleven west of the Indian principal meridian, containing forty

acres, was reserved for the use of the Fort Sill Indian sub-agency.

And whereas it appears that said land is no longer required for use

by said Fort Sill Indian sub-agency, and that it is within one and a

half miles of the City of Lawton , Oklahoma Territory, and is needed

Vol . 26, p. 502.

by said city for cemetery purposes, and the city authorities of said city desire to make entry thereof for said purposes under the act of

Congress approved September 30, 1890 (26 Stat. , 502) ;

Fort Sill Indian sub- Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United agency. Land restored public domain ftoor States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section six of said act

cemetery purposes, of Congress of June 6 , 1900 , do hereby declare and make known that

Lawton, Okla.

said land is hereby restored to the public domain, to be disposed of to

said city for cemetery purposes under said act of Congress approved

September 30, 1890. n witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 4th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two , and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 39.

2027

[No. 39. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 4, 1902.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Con- Vol. 26, p. 1103.
gress , approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , enti-

tled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes " , Post, p. 2030. " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and
reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve, Mon-
Now, therefore , I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United tana.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts , pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit : Beginning at the point where the range line between Ranges twenty
(20) and twenty-one (21) East, Principal Meridian, Montana , intersects

Boundaries.

the boundary line between the States of Montana and Wyoming ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point of intersection with the eastern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park ; thence northerly along the said boundary to the north-east corner of the said national

park; thence westerly along the northern boundary of the said national

park tothe point for its intersection with the range line between Ranges nine (9) and ten (10) East ; thence northerly along said surveyed and unsurveyed range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First (1st)

Standard Parallel South, to the south-west corner of Section eighteen

(18) , Township four (4) South, Range ten (10) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence northerly along the section

lines to the north- east corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-two (32), township

three (3) South, Range ten (10) East ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section five (5) , said township ;

thence easterly along the township line to the north-east corner of Township three (3) South, Range eleven (11) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the point for its intersection

with the range line between Ranges thirteen ( 13) and fourteen (14)

East ; thence northerly along said surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the north-west corner of Township two (2) South, Range fourteen (14) East; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the point for the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly to the point for the north-east corner of Town-

ship three (3) South, Range fifteen (15) East ; thence southerly to the

point for the south- east corner of said township ; thence easterly along

the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the north-west corner of Township four (4) South, Range eighteen (18) East ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the First (1st)

Standard Parallel South ; thence easterly along said parallel to its inter-

section with the range line between Ranges eighteen (18) and nineteen

2028

PROCLAMATIONS . Nos. 39, 40.

(19) East ; thence southerly along said surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the south-west corner of Township seven (7) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Township eight (8) South, Range twenty (20) East ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Montana and

Lands excepted.

Wyoming, the place of beginning. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from set-

tlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The Absaroka For-

est Reserve.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Absaroka

Forest Reserve .

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 4th day of September, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-seventh.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADE

Acting Secretary of State.

October 29, 1902.

[No. 40. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Preamble.

A PROCLAMATION.
According to the yearly custom of our people, it falls upon the President at this season to appoint a day of festival and thanksgiving to God.
Over a century and a quarter has passed since this country took its place among the nations of the earth , and during that time we have had on the whole more to be thankful for than has fallen to the lot of any other people. Generation after generation has grown to manhood and passed away. Each has had to bear its peculiar burdens, each to face its special crises, and each has known years of grim trial, when the country was menaced by malice domestic or foreign levy, when the hand of the Lord was heavy upon it in drouth or flood or pestilence, when in bodily distress and anguish of soul it paid the penalty of folly and a froward heart. Nevertheless , decade by decade, we have struggled onward and upward; we now abundantly enjoy material well-being, and under the favor of the Most High we are striving earnestly to achieve moral and spiritual uplifting. The year that has just closed has been one of peace and of overflowing plenty. Rarely has any people enjoyed greater prosperity than we are now enjoying. For this we render heartfelt and solemn thanks to the Giver of Good ; and we seek to praise Him not by words only but by

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 40, 41.

2029

deeds, by the way in which we do our duty to ourselves and to our

fellow men.

Now, therefore,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT ,

President

of

the

United

,beTrh2u7r, s1d9a0y2,,

Novemset apart

States, do

hereby designate

as

a day

of

general

thanksgiving Thurs-

as a day of national thanksgiving .

day, the twenty- seventh of the coming November, and do recommend

that throughout the land the people cease from their ordinary occupations, and in their several homes and places of worship render thanks

unto Almighty God for the manifold blessings of the past year.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal

of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 29th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two and

[SEAL. ] of the independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-seventh.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 41. ]

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

January 17, 1903.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section one of the Act of Congress , Preamble. Ante, p . 731.
approved July first, nineteen hundred and two , entitled, "An Act Authorizing the President to reserve public lands and buildings in the island of Porto Rico for public uses, and granting other public lands and buildings to the government of Porto Rico, and for other purposes", " That the President be, and he is hereby, authorized to make, within one year after the approval of this Act, such reservation of public lands and buildings belonging to the United States in the island of Porto Rico, for military, naval, light- house, marine-hospital, post -offices, custom -houses, United States courts, and other public purposes, as he may deem necessary" ;
And whereas, the public lands in the island of Porto Rico , within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United RiFcoor.est reserve, Porto States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section one of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved and set apart as a Public Forest Reservation all those certain tracts , pieces or parcels of public lands, not heretofore appropriated or reserved, lying and being situate in the island of Porto Rico, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit :
Beginning at the point where the parallel of eighteen ( 18) degrees Boundaries. and twenty-two (22) minutes , north latitude , intersects the meridian of
sixty-five (65) degrees and fifty -five (55) minutes, west longitude ; thence due east along said parallel to its intersection with the meridian of
sixty - five (65) degrees and forty - five (45 ) minutes , west longitude ; thence due south along said meridian to its intersection with the parallel of eighteen (18) degrees and fourteen (14) minutes, north latitude ; thence due west along said parallel to its intersection with the meridian of sixty-five (65) degrees and fifty - five (55) minutes, west longitude ; thence due north along said meridian to its intersection with the parallel of eighteen (18) degrees and twenty - two (22) minutes, north latitude , the place of beginning.

2030

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos . 41 , 42.

Reserved from settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to occupy or

use the lands reserved by this proclamation .

The Luquillo Forest

Reserve .

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Luquillo

Forest Reserve.

In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 17th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and three,

[SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty - seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

[No. 42. ]

January 29, 1903.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1565; Vol. Whereas , The Yellowstone Forest Reserve and The Teton Forest

29076, .p. 989 ; Vol . 29, p. Reserve, in the State of Wyoming, and The Absaroka Forest Reserve,

Ante, pp. 1999, 2006. in the State of Montana, have been heretofore established by proclaAnte, p. 2027.
Vol. 26, p. 1103. mations, under the provisions of the acts of March third, eighteen

Vol. 30, p. 36.

hundred and ninety -one, entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", and June fourth, eighteen hundred and

ninety- seven, entitled, " An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ";
And whereas, it appearing proper that the area embraced in said forest reserves with certain additions thereto should be included in one

reserve and be distinguished by one name ; and it appearing that the public lands in the States of Wyoming and Montana, within the limits

hereinafter described are in part covered with timber, and that the

public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving the same

Yellowstone Forest as a public reservation;

Reserve. Wyoming.

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United

saTrhoekaTFeotroenstarnedserAvbe-s States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid acts of consolidated with. Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the proclamations
heretofore issued respecting said forest reserves are hereby superseded,

Boundaries.

and The Yellowstone Forest Reserve is hereby established in place thereof, with boundaries as follows, to wit:
Beginning at the point where the range line between Ranges nine

(9) and ten (10) East, Principal Meridian, Montana, intersects the northern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park; thence north-

erly along said surveyed and unsurveyed range line , allowing for the proper offset on the First (1st) Standard Parallel South, to the south-

west corner of Section eighteen (18) , Township four (4) South , Range ten (10) East; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-two

(32) , Township three (3) South, Range ten (10) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section five (5), said township ; thence easterly along the township line to the north -east corner of Township three (3) South, Range eleven (11 ) East; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly along the

surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the point for the south-

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 42.
west corner of Township three (3) South , Range fourteen (14) East; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the north-west corner of Township two (2) South , Range fourteen (14) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the point for the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the point for the north-east corner of Township three (3) South, Range fifteen (15) East; thence southerly to the point for the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly along the surveyed and unsurveyed township line to the north- west corner of Township four (4) South, Range eighteen (18) East ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the First (1st) Standard Parallel South; thence easterly along said parallel to the north- east corner of Township Six (6) South, Range eighteen (18) East ; thence southerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the southwest corner of Township seven (7) South, Range nineteen (19) East ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Township eight (8) South , Range twenty (20) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Montana and Wyoming ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point for its intersection with the range line between Ranges one hundred and two (102) and one hundred and three (103) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian , Wyoming; thence southerly along said range line to its intersection with the Fourteenth (14th) Standard Parallel North; thence westerly along said parallel to the north-east corner of Section four (4), Township fifty-six (56) North , Range one hundred and three (103) West ; thence southerly along the section lines to the south-east corner of Section thirty- three (33) , Township fifty-four (54) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Township fifty -three (53) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township; thence westerly along the Thirteenth (13th) Standard Parallel North to the north- west corner of township fifty-two (52) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence southerly along the range line to the north-west corner of Section eighteen (18), Township fifty (50) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence easterlyto the north-west corner of Section fifteen (15) , said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3), said township; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section two (2) , said township; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section seventeen (17) , Township fifty (50) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen (14) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eleven (11 ), said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north- west quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the quarter-quarter section line to the north- west corner of the north- east quarter of the north-west quarter of Section two (2) , said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section one (1 ) , said township; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section seven (7), Township fifty (50) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen (19), said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty- three (23) , Township fifty (50) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West; thence southerly

2031

2032

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 42.
along the quarter-section lines to the north-west corner of the northeast quarter of Section two (2) , Township forty-nine (49) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township forth-nine (49) North , Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence easterly along the Twelfth (12th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Township forty- eight (48) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one (1 ) . said township; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section nine (9), said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33), said township; thence easterly to the south - west corner of Township forty- eight (48) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of the north -west quarter of Section thirty-one (31) , said township ; thence easterly along the quarter-quarter section lines to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of the north-east quarter of said section; thence southerly along the quarter-quarter section lines to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6), Township forty-seven (47) North, Range one hundred and three (103) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section thirteen ( 13) , said township; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21), Township forty-seven (47) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West ; thence southerly along the section lines to the north- east corner of Section four (4) , Township forty-five (45 ) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said Township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Eleventh (11th) Standard Parallel North, to its intersection with the northern boundary of the Wind River or Shoshone Indian Reservation ; thence, in a general northwesterly and southwesterly direction, along the northern and western boundary of said reservation to its intersection with the township line between Townships forty-two (42) and forty-three (43) North; thence westerly along said township line to the north -east corner of Township forty -two (42) North , Range one hundred and nine (109) West; thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township forty-one (41 ) North , Range one hundred and nine (109) West; thence easterly along the Tenth (10th) Standard Parallel North to its intersection with the western boundary of the Wind River or Shoshone Indian Reservation ; thence, in a southeasterly, southerly and easterly direction, along the western and southern boundary of said reservation to its intersection with the range line between Ranges one hundred and one (101 ) and one hundred and two (102) West; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township thirty - three (33) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West ; thence easterly along the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North to the north-west corner of Town-
ship thirty-two (32) North, Range one hundred (100) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen (19), said township; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one(21 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33), said township; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said township ; thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner of Township twenty-nine (29) North, Range one hundred (100 ) West ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 42.
(19) , said township ; thence westerly along the section lines to the southwest corner of Section eighteen (18) , Township twenty -nine (29) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19), Township thirty (30) North, Range one hundred and two (102) West; thence westerly along the section lines to the south-west corner of Section fifteen (15), Township thirty (30) North, Range one hundred and four (104) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34), Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range one hundred and five (105) West; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen (15), said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen (18), said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township thirty-two (32) North, Range one hundred and six (106) West; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3), said township ; thence westerly along the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North to the south-west corner of Township thirtythree (33) North, Range one hundred and seven (107) West; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township; thence westerly to the south-west corner of section thirty-four (34), Township thirtyfour (34) North, Range one hundred and nine (109) West; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Township thirty-five (35) North, Range one hundred and ten ( 110) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34), Township thirty-six (36) North , Range one hundred and ten (110) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section three (3), said township ; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North to the south-east corner of Township thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range one hundred and ten (110) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen (13) , said township; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section eighteen (18) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township thirty- seven (37) North, Range one hundred and eleven (111) West ; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township thirty- six (36) North , Range one hundred and twelve (112) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33), said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township thirty-five (35) North, Range one hundred and thirteen (113) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence southerly along the range line to the south- east corner of Township thirty-three (33) North, Range one hundred and fourteen (114) West ; thence westerly along the Eighth (8th ) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Township thirty - two (32) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West ; thence southerly along the range line to the south -east corner of Township twenty-nine (29) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West ; thence easterly along the Seventh (7th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Township twentyeight (28) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West ; thence southerly along the range line to the south- east corner of Township twenty-five (25) North, Range one hundred and fifteen (115) West ; thence westerly along the Sixth (6th) Standard Parallel North to the southwest corner of Township twenty- five (25) North, Range one hundred and seventeen (117) West; thence northerly along the surveyed and unsurveyed range line to the point for the north-west corner of Township twenty-eight (28) North , Range one hundred and seventeen (117)
VOL XXXII , PT 2--51

2033

2034

PROCLAMATIONS. No. 42.

Lands excepted.

West; thence westerly along the Seventh (7th) Standard Parallel North to the south-east corner of Township twenty-nine (29) North , Range one hundred and eighteen (118 ) West ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty-three (33) , Township thirty(30) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the north-east corner of the southwest quarter of Section sixteen (16) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said quarter- section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section five (5), said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quarter- section ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the point of intersection with the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North ; thence easterly along said parallel to the south- west corner of Section thirty-four (34) . Township thirty-three (33) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27), Township thirty-four (34) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence westerly to the southeast corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the northeast corner of the south-west quarter of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quarter-section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section eight (8), said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section five (5) , said township; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said quarter-section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said quarter-section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty -one (31 ) , Township thirty-five (35) North, Range one hundred and eighteen (118) West; thence westerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of said section; thence northerly along the range line to its intersection with the Ninth (9th) Standard Parallel North ; thence westerly along said parallel to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Idaho ; thence northerly along said state boundary line to the point where it intersects the southern boundary of the Yellowstone National Park; thence, in an easterly, northerly and westerly direction , along the boundary of said park to the point where it intersects the range line between Ranges nine (9) and ten (10) East , Principal Meridian, Montana, the place of beginning; excepting and excluding from reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Wyoming and particularly described as follows, to wit:
Township forty (40) North , Range one hundred and sixteen (116) West; Townships forty-one (41) North, Ranges one hundred and fifteen (115) and one hundred and sixteen (116) West ; and Townships forty- two (42) North, Ranges one hundred and fifteen (115 ) and one hundred and sixteen (116) West.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, That this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry , filing or settlement was made.

PROCLAMATIONS. Nos. 42 , 43.

2035

Existing rights not Provided further, That nothing herein shall give any force or effect affected. to any claim or right to any of the lands heretofore embraced within
the reserves hereby consolidated which would not have been entitled to recognition if said reserves as heretofore established had been
continued in force without being merged into a single reserve as here-
inbefore provided . Reserved from set-
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- tlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington this 29th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and three, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-seventh. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : JOHN HAY
Secretary of State.

[No. 43. ]

A PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT.

February 7, 1903.

Whereas, a proclamation was issued February 10, 1890 , by the Presi-
dent making known and proclaiming the acceptance of the Sioux Act approved March 2 , 1889 (25 Stats. , 888) by the different bands of the
Sioux Nation of Indians, and the consent thereto by them as required by the said act;
And whereas, the proclamation contains the following clause :
That there is also reserved as aforesaid the following described tract within which the Cheyenne River Agency, school and certain other buildings are located, to wit: Commencing at a point in the center of the main channel of the Missouri River opposite Deep Creek, about three miles south of the Cheyenne River; thence due west five and one half miles; thence due north to the Cheyenne River; thence down said river to the center of the main channel thereof to a point in the center of the Missouri River due east or opposite the mouth of said Cheyenne River; thence down the center of the main channel of the Missouri River to the place of beginning:

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1554. Vol. 25, p. 888.
Vol. 26, p. 1556.

And whereas, the government, agency and school buildings have been removed from the lands as above indicated to their present locations ;

And whereas, there appears to be no reason for continuing the lands

in a state of reservation , the same not being needed for Indian purposes;

Now, therefore,

I , THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

President

of

the

United

Cheyenne River Agency lands restored

States, by virtue of the power in me vested do hereby declare the said to public domain.

lands subject to disposal under the provisions of the said act , except Exception . 160 acres of land to which the St. Johns Mission School has obtained

title under the Sioux Act mentioned , in accordance with the provisions thereof.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

WHITE HOUSE ,

February 7, 1903. [ SEAL. ] By the President ,
JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

2036

PROCLAMATIONS . No. 44.

March 2, 1903.

[No. 44. ] BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas, public interests require that the Senate should convene in

extraordinary session ;
Convening extra session of the Senate. Therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the United States

of America, do hereby proclaim and declare that an extraordinary

occasion requires the Senate of the United States to convene at the

Capitol in the city of Washington on the 5th day of March next at

twelve o'clock noon, of which all persons who shall at that time be

entitled to act as members of that body are hereby required to take notice.

Given under my hand and the Seal of the United States at Wash-

ington the 2d day of March in the year of our Lord one [SEAL . ] thousand nine hundred and three and of the Independence

of the United States the one hundred and twenty - seventh.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

INDEX .

[An index of public laws is given at the end of Part One. ]

A.
"Abagail," Schooner, payment of French spoliation claim on ac-
count of..... Abandoned Military Reservations ( see Military
Reservations, Abandoned ) .
Abatement, D. C., on failure of heirs to appear, defendant may elect to proceed instead of....

Page. 227
528

"Active," Ship, payment of French spoliation claim on account of..
Adams, Augustin M., pension increased ..
Adams, Charles H. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Adams, Eleanore F. (widow),
pension .

Page. 225 1424 209 1455

Abbott, Chester W.,

pension increased

1638

Abbott, Eliza B. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1749

Abbott, Twyman O.,

236

payment to...

Abercrombie, Frances J. (widow), 1395
pension ..

Aberdeen, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for public building .... 420 , 1083

limit of cost increased , public building..

314

terms of court .

197

"Abigail," Sloop,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

224

Adams, George I. , bulletin on Texas oil and gas fields, etc. ,
by, ordered printed ....
Adams, Henry, payment of Court of Claims judgment to executors of......
Adams Mill Road, D. C., deficiency appropriation for award of damages, widening
Adams, Marietta L. (widow) , pension increased .
Adams, Mary J. (widow),
pension . Adams, Mourse R. ,
pension increased .

1764
210
1044 1393 1474 1262

Abilene, Tex., appropriation for public building
terms of court ..
Abingdon, Va., terms of court

Adams, O. F. ,

420 payment to

236

69 "dams, " Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

552, 794

count of

221

Absaroka Forest Reserve, Mont.,

Addison, W. Va.,

proclamation establishing

2027 term of court at

791

consolidating with Yellowstone Forest

Additional Act, International,

Reserve ..

2030 for protection of industrial property

1936

Absentee Shawnee Indians,

Aden, Arabia,

sale of Kickapoo Agency lands, Oklahoma,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816

for enlarging school ...

1001 Adjournment of Congress, 1902,

Absentee Shawnee Indians, Big Jim's Band,

concurrent resolution authorizing .................... 1772

approprOikaltai.o, n for support, etc. , of ...... 256 , 993

Acapulco, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Accounting Officers of the Treasury,

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by.

28, 585, 629, 1072

to allow credits, etc. , in accounts of army

disbursing officers during war with

Spain ....

955

to close accounts of officers for Govern-

ment property

956

accounts not included .

956

Accounts, D. C., settlement of differences between Treasury

Adjutant- General of Militia,

to be appointed in each State, etc ...

776

duties, returns, etc ...

776

Adjutant-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers ; longev-

ity

509, 931

for contingent expenses, military depart-

ment

507, 928

Adjutant- General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

149 , 884

for expenses, military information di-

vision

507, 928

for translator, etc. , military information

division ...

511 , 933

Auditor and auditor of District .....
Acee, Stiles L., pension increased .
Acker, John W., pension increased .
Ackley, Frances L. , pension.
Ackridge, Robert L., pension increased .
Acree, Jasper W., pension increased ..

592 1523 1450 1454 1342 1672

Adler, Dr. Cyrus, to prepare introduction for Jefferson's 'Morals of Jesus of Nazareth " ...
Administrators, of inventors in foreign countries allowed
to take out patents ... payment of unpaid legacy tax by . Administrators, D. C. ( see also Probate Court,
D. C. ) , limit of levy on property in hands of..... special bond authorized ; consent ofparties.

1769
1226 98
541 528

2037

2038

INDEX .

Admiralty Court, claims referred to ..

Page . 242

Admiralty Pleadings, Alaska, omitted from section of code abolishing

pleadings .....

944

Adrian, Mich.,

construction of public building at, author-

ized; nominal site

316

appropriation for .

426, 1083

Adulterated Butter,

subject to State, etc. , laws ...

193

definition of...

194

special tax on manufacturers and dealers . 195

dealers defined

195

special tax laws applicable

195

regulations for manufacturers .

195

packages required ; sales .

195

penalties for violations ..

196

labels required ; penalties .

196

tax on manufacture ; stamps .

196

oleomargarine rules and penalties applica-

ble to ..

196

returns, etc., by manufacturers ; penalties . 197

Adulterations of Food, etc.,

appropriation for investigation ...

296, 1157

analysis of imported articles; seizure if

unwholesome

296, 1158

Advertisements, punishment for, simulating coins of the United States or of any foreign country .
Ady, Andrew, pension
Aerial Ferry, authorized over Duluth Canal , Minn
"Agamenticus, " Ironclad Monitor,

1223 1576
3

claim for extra compensation, turrets of,

referred to Court of Claims ...........

244

Agate Bay, Minn., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 346

Agents, Indian,

appropriation for pay of civilian, at agen-

cies ..

245,982

Agreements, Indian,

proclamation declaring ratification of, with

Creeks ..

1971

Agricultural Colleges, etc., appropriation for exhibit at Louisiana

Purchase Exposition by .

1108

deficiency in payments for, from public-

land sales, to be paid by United

States ...

803

on account of reclamation fund, pro-

vided for..

388

Agricultural Department (see Department of

Agriculture ).

Agricultural Experiment Stations,

appropriation forexpenses; blanks, etc. 301 , 1163

for report on Alaska resources, etc .. 301 , 1164

card index

302, 1164

for station, Hawaiian Islands ..

302, 1164

Porto Rico

302, 1164

Agricultural Lands,

sales of, in Philippines .....

696

Agricultural Products,

appropriation for extending foreign mar-

kets for .

300, 1162

Agricultural Report,

appropriation for printing and binding . 480 , 1146

Ahlstedt, Oswald,

pension increased......

1410

Ahnapee, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 345

Aix la Chapelle, Germany, appropriation for consul at
for clerk hire ....

82, 814 86, 818

Akron, Sterling and Northern Railroad Com- Page.

pany,

time extended for constructing road in

Alaska ...

1230

Alabama,
homestead certificates to parties holding titles to lands from certain railroads . 1222
spars of Spanish battle ships donated to.. 304

Alabama Middle Judicial District,

terms of court, Montgomery

820

Alabama Northern Judicial District,

eastern division created ..

court rooms, process, etc. terms of court, Anniston
Birmingham Huntsville

821,832 820

Alabama River, Ala. ,

appropriation for improvement of....

354

bridge authorized across, in Wilcox County 772

Alafia, Manatee and Gulf Coast Railway Com-

pany,

granted right of way, Gasparilla Island ,

Fla. , reservations ..

384

Alaska,

appropriation for emergency mail service

in

114, 1172

for salaries, government in for contingent expenses . for surveyor-general, clerks, etc

147,882 147,882 162, 897

for report, etc. , agricultural resources . 301, 1164

forlight-houseand fog-signal stations . for protecting seal, etc. , fisheries .... for surveying coasts.. for expenses, seal fisheries .. for protecting salmon fisheries
for investigating mineral resources . for reindeer for ..

433, 1095 435, 1096 436, 1098 449, 1111 450, 1111
1118 457, 1120

for traveling expenses, court officials . 474, 1140

for incidental expenses, court officials 474, 1140

for military telegraph; continued ...... 508

for military roads and bridges ; balance

available

517

for military cable to .

929

for exhibit at Louisiana Purchase Ex-

position ..

1108

for site, military post

1130

deficiency appropriation for reindeer.

19

for investigating mineral resources

for surveyor-general...........

31

fortravelingexpenses, court officials 25,577,1063

for salaries of commissioners ..

560

for transporting destitute citizens from 563, 1046

for court expenses

587,1063

for food to natives

1036

for relief of destitute natives .

1048

additional sergeants, Signal Corps, for serv-

ice in

509

Alexander Archipelago Forest Reserve, 2025

proclamation establishing

game protection in ..

327

destruction of wild game prohibited;

description ..

327

sealing, etc., laws not affected .

327

open game seasons ; special prohibitions . 327

restriction on sales of game, etc.

328

on shipments ..

328

penalties; arrests, etc.

328

homestead laws extended to

1028

restriction on indemnity, etc. , locations . 1028

distance from prior locations on naviga-

ble waters ..

1029

maximum commutation allowed .

1029

entries along shores limited

1029

of shores not allowed ..

1029

up to 320 acres allowed

1029

INDEX .

2039

Alaska - Continued.

Page. Albuquerque, N. Mex. -Continued.

Page.

homestead entries on unsurveyed lands ;

proceedings to patent ..

1029

report to be made on post-office building

for

326

fees, etc., required .... mineral and coal lands not subject to
restriction on transfers by settlers

1029 Aldrich, Joseph A.,

1029 payment of Court of Claims judgment to

1029

administrator of .......

215

contracts prior to receipt of patent void .. 1030 Ale,

land districts reduced to one; office at

internal-revenue tax on, reduced ..........

96

Sitka

20 Aleutian Islands,

lands granted Juneau .. marshal's bond may be increased . three recording and judicial divisions
established ....
time extended for constructing Akron, Sterling and Northern Railroad ....
trade statistics of commerce with, re-
quired ... Alaska Civil Code Amendments,

773 appropriation for meteorological stations .. 2 Alexander Archipelago Forest Reserve, Alaska,
4 proclamation establishing . 385 Alexander, Joseph M.,
pension increased .. 1230 Alexander, Perry H.,
pension increased . 172 Alexander, Solomon A. ,
pension increased ..

288 2025 1732 1356 1730

admiralty omitted from section abolishing

Alexandretta, Syria,

forms of pleadings ..

944 appropriation for consul at

84, 816

in divorce proceedings plaintiff to reside

two years instead of three.

944

town-council powers extended

945

treasurer of corporations; bond .

946

to receive all license moneys ; division for

school and municipal uses .

946

license moneys for business outside of

towns to be used for school purposes . 946

private corporations provisions

947

Alaska Commercial Company,

deficiency appropriation for wood; bond

required

1047

for relief of Alaskans

1048

Alexandria, Va.,

limit of cost increased , public building... 314

appropriation for

424, 1083

Algiers, Africa, appropriation for consul at .....

84, 816

Alien Contract Labor,

admission of, for expositions permitted ... 177 importation of, unlawful; penalty ...... 1214

Alien Contract Labor Laws,

appropriation for enforcing .

450, 1112

deficiency appropriation for enforcing ....

7

Alien Immigration, corrections directed in enrollment of bill

Alaska Exploration Company,

regulating ....

1774

deficiency appropriation for paying ...

7 Aliens (see also Immigration of Aliens ) ,

for relief of natives

1048 regulations of immigration of....

1213

Alaskan Boundary Tribunal,

right of, to land, to be determined by

convention with Great Britain for ......... 1961

board of special inquiry ......

1220

Alaskan Boundary,

Aliens, D. C.,

appropriation for tribunal to settle ....... 1138 corporations having over 50 per cent of

Alaskan Fur Seals,

stock owned by, not allowed to hold

appropriation for new examination of

real estate..

530

habits, etc

1138 Aliens, Immigration of,

Alaskan Seal Fisheries,

jurisdiction over, transferred to Depart-

appropriation for protecting

449, 1096

ment of Commerce and Labor ..... 828

for expenses of agents ..

449, 1111 Alimony, D. C. ,

for food, etc. , to natives .

450, 1111 right of husband to appeal from order, re-

for expenses of log books, etc.

450, 1117

pealed

537

deficiency appropriation for food to na-

Allegheny, Pa. ,

tives ..

1036 bridge authorized across Ohio River at ... 178

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

Allegheny River, Pa.,

of Commerce and Labor

828 appropriation for improvement of...

350

Albany and Rensselaer Iron and Steel Company,

Six Mile Island dam ...

350

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

for locks and dams, Herr Island .

462

ment

764

Springdale

462

claim of Godeffroy & Co. , agents for, re-

bridge authorized across, at Pittsburg, Pa . 837

ferred to Court of Claims ; payment. 764 Alleman, Henry,

"Albany," United States Navy,

payment to

489

appropriation for new battery

666 Allen, Albert W.,

"Albatross," Fish Commission Steamer,

pension increased...

1715

appropriation for repairs, etc .. deficiency appropriation for surfboat

1107 Allen, Asa F., 11 payment of Court of Claims judgment to

Albemarle Sound, N. C.,

administratrix of .....

208

appropriation for waterway, Norfolk to .. 351 Allen, H. B.,

Albert Lea, Minn.,

appropriation for

269

purchase authorized of public-building

Allen, Caroline N.. ( mother ),

site .

320 pension

1246

appropriation for .

428 Allen, Charles,

limit of cost increased, site for public

pension increased ..

1348

building

1207 Allen John U.,

deficiency appropriation for

1038 pension increased .

1571

Albuquerque, N. Mex.,

Allen, Sarah E. (widow) ,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 269 , 1002 pension increased ....

1341

purchase of public-building site authorized . 320 Allen, William H.,

appropriation for

428 pension increased ..

1313

2040

INDEX .

Allentown, Pa. ,

Page. | American Seamen,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

426, 1083

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205

Alleys, D. C.,

appropriation for grading...

597, 962

foropening; use of balances ; repayments . 597, 962

appropriation for relief and protection of. 87,819 deficiency appropriation for relief, etc......... 32,
587, 590, 1075, 1077

American Seamen, Shipwrecked,

appropriation for life-saving testimonials . 79, 810

American Surety Company,

appropriation for reimbursing, on account

of Mission Indians suits .....

999

deficiency appropriation for opening,

American Tube and Iron Company,

square 24

1044

489

order authorizing change of, to be filed

payment to..

with plat...

545 American Vessels,

police and health regulations continued .. telephone poles permitted in . Allin, Erskine S.,

544 deficiency appropriation for services to ,

395

and seamen

1077

Ames, John G.,

payment to heirs of, improvement in

deficiency appropriation for payment to.. 583

Springfield rifle

236 Amesbury, Mass.,

Allin, Fannie T. , payment to
Alloway Creek, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of Allport, Amos,

construction of public building authorized

236

at

318

appropriation for

427, -1083

350 limit of cost increased, public building;

fronting on two streets not required . 1206

pension .. Allyn, Arthur W.,
payment to "Almena," Sloop,

1420 Amherstburg, Canada, appropriation for consul at
1453 Amick, Freeling H., pension increased .

84,815 1750

payment of French spoliation claim on

Amite River, La.,

account of

221 appropriation for improvement of........ 355

"Almirante Oquendo," Spanish Battle Ship, mast from, donated to Alabama

Ammunition, 304 sale of, in uncivilized Pacific islands forbid-

Alsbach, Oliver P.,

pension increased ..

1721

Alston, Edward H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

213

Altamaha River, Ga., appropriation for improvement of ...... 353

Alviso Harbor and Slough, Cal., appropriation for improvement of........ 368

Amadon, John H. ,

pension increased .

1744

Ambassadors, appropriation for .

76, 807

Ambrook, Charles,

pension increased .

1346

Ambrose Channel, Sandy Hook Bar, N. Y.

Harbor, appropriation for improvement of..... 463 , 1125

use of portion of amount to remove rock

in North River .

751

Ambrose, James R.,

pension increased ..

1549

Amendments, D. C.,

allowed in all judicial proceedings

530

American Central Insurance Company, Saint

Louis, Mo.,

den; punishment ...

Ammunition, Army,

appropriation for reserve supply for can-

non.

307, 1026

for artillery practice, etc

308, 1026

for manufacture of metallic, etc ...... 519 , 941

Ammunition, Navy,

appropriation for . for smokeless powder

665, 1179 666, 1180

Amnesty,

proclamation granting , to Philippine in-

surrectionists ...

2014

Amory, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229,230

Amoy, China, appropriation for consul at

81, 813

Amsterdam, Netherlands,

appropriation for consul at

83,814

Amusement Buildings, D. C.,

license tax on lessees, etc ..

626

Anacostia and Potomac River Railroad Com-

pany, D. C., extension of Eleventh street line author-

ized

731

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

Anacostia River, D. C.,

tlement ..

1078, 1078 appropriation for improvement of........ 351

American Ephemeris,

Anacostia River Flats, D. C. ,

appropriation for preparing .

155,889 appropriation for survey, etc

599

distribution of.

678 | Anadarko, Okla.,

copies to be printed ; distribution .

740

American Insurance Company, Cincinnati,

Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement

1079, 1080

additional allowance for public works,

from sale of lots .

506

proclamation restoring premises of Indian

agency adjoining, to public domain,

for park purposes..

2007

American National Bank, Ga, payment to ..

Anarchists, etc., 487 admission of alien , excluded ..................................... 1214

American Register,

description of, not permitted to enter; en-

granted to foreign-built vessel " Hawaii " . 35

forcement .

1221

"Otto Gildemeister " and name changed

to "Homeward Bound "

198

penalties for assisting such illegal entries . 1221

naturalization of, prohibited ........

1222

American Republics, International Union of,

appropriation for expenses, Commercial

Bureau

88,812

duties of courts to prevent; affidavits ... 1222

punishment for procuring illegal .

1222

for aiding application , etc...

1222

INDEX .

2041

Anatomical Board of the District of Columbia, to control distribution of dead human bodies at almshouse, morgue, etc...
return requested from President of bill
establishing ... Anclote River, Fla.,
appropriation for improvement of ........ Anderson, Albanis L.,
pension increased
Anderson, Etta Adair (widow) , pension increased ..

Page. 173
1766 354 1724 1359

Anderson, Frances T. (widow) ,

pension increased

1355

Anderson, Ind. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1083

Anderson, John B. ,

pension.

1629

Anderson, Mariah J. (widow),

pension increased .

1355

Anderson, Rodney W.,

pension..

1700

Anderson, Thomas,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executrix of ..

213

Anderson, William E.,

granted honorable discharge ....

1611

Anderson, William W.,

pension increased .

1513

Anderton, Francis W.,

pension increased .

1442

Andre, Dennis F.,

pension increased .

1588

Andress, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1468

Andrews, Forrest E. ,

pension

1454

Andrews, Reuben,

pension increased .

1568

Andrews, Sara B. (widow),

pension

1294

Angel, Alice (daughter),

pension

1314

Angerine, William F. ,

pension increased .

1517

Anglada, Julia (widow),

pension increased ..

1624

Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association,

refund of internal-revenue tax to

1652

Animal Industry Bureau, Department of Agri-

culture, appropriation for salaries .

288, 1150

for general expenses . horse inspection . waiving meat inspection collecting information of eases, etc ..

cattle

289, 1150 289, 1150 289, 1151 dis-
289, 1151

for experiment station, Bethesda, Md 290, 1151

for quarantine stations ..

290, 1151

extending foreign markets for dairy

products, etc.; sales

290, 1151

leaves to employees ..

290

inspection, etc. , of dairy products for

export

290, 1151

additional land, Bethesda, Md .

290

for quarantine station, Athenia, N. J. 1151

Baltimore, Md ..

1151

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses

25,758

for salaries and expenses .

32, 1075

powers to suppress contagious diseases

transferred to Secretary of Agricul-

ture

791

supervision over cattle, etc

792

Animals,

Page.

free admission of registered pure-bred, for

breeding, whether for sale or not ... 1023

return of, temporarily feeding or straying

across the border .

1023

Animals, Alaska,

protection of wild, and game

327

Animals, Domestic,

appropriation for quarantine stations for

imported..

290, 1151

powers to suppress contagious diseases of,

transferred to Secretary of Agricul-

ture

791

Ann Arbor, Mich. ,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208

Annaberg, Germany,

appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Annapolis, Md. (see also Naval Academy ) ,

deficiency appropriation for marine bar-

racks

1053

Anniston, Ala.,

appropriation for public building .

1083

limit of cost increased, public building .. 310, 1204

adjustment of damage claims .

1204

terms of court at ..........

832

Anoka, Minn.,

bridge authorized across Mississippi River,

between Champlin and...

407

Anthony, Frances H. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1444

Anthracite Coal,

no duty to be imposed on

773

Anthracite Coal Strike Commission,

appropriation for expenses; allowances .. 758

Anti-Trust Cases,

precedence given to, of public importance . 823

certificate of Attorney-General to secure

hearing .

823

composition of court; review of divided

opinion ....

823

appeal direct to Supreme Court .

823

pending appeals .

823

Anti-Trust Laws,

appropriation for special counsel , etc. , to

enforce

904

immunity to persons testifying

904

perjury not included ..

904

Antietam Battlefield, Md.,

appropriation for repair of monuments,

etc

464, 1128

for superintendent .

464, 1128

Antigua, West Indies, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Antito.rin,

regulation of sale in District of Columbia,

and interstate traffic in ....

728

Antlitz, John F.,

military record corrected ....

1314

Antwerp, Belgium,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire.......

86, 818

Apache, etc., Indians, N. Mex. and Ariz.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 255 , 992

Apache Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of..........

991

fee-simple patents to certain ..

1008

Apache Indian Prisoners,

appropriation for support, etc. , Fort Sill,

Okla ....

467

Apalachicola Bay, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 339

Apalachicola River, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of....... 353

2042

INDEX.

 22415 20 2 1 3 RE B2 2 2 2 32R2 FE E 223 83 88 88
216

Apia and Nukualofa, Samoan Islands,

Page.

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81,813

Apothecaries, D. C. ,

license tax on..

623

App, Matthias, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 213

Appalachian Region, Southern,

report on, ordered printed

1768

Appeals, Circuit Court of (see Circuit Court of Appeals ) .

Applegate, Aaron M.,

pension

1275

Appleton, Edmond B. ,

pension increased

1486

Appleton, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of..

220

Appliances for Disabled Soldiers, appropriation for furnishing. deficiency appropriation for .
Appling, Francis B.,

467, 1131 29, 586, 589

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 207

Appomattox,

appropriation for property taken from

Confederate soldiers in violation of

terms of surrender at .....

43

Appomattox River, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ....

351, 1126

Appoquinimink River, Del., appropriation for improvement of ........................ 350

Appraisers, Customs Service,

number at Philadelphia and Boston re-

duced; salary increased ...

715

Appraisers, Local,

appropriation for meetings ...

449, 1111

Appropriations,

appropriation for statement of ........ 479 , 1144

for deficiencies .

552, 1031

for urgent deficiencies .... 5 , 93, 118 , 284,758, 774

for pensions ..

62, 761

for diplomatic and consular service Cuba ..

76, 807 199

for postal service .

107, 1165

for legislative, executive, and judicial ex-

penses -

120, 854

for claims under Bowman and Tucker acts . 207

for French spoliation claims .

217

for churches and school claims

234

for Indian Department . to take effect July 1 , 1902

245, 982 742

for Department of Agriculture . for fortifications .

286, 1147 305, 1024

for river and harbor improvements
for support of Military Academy for sundry civil expenses. for paying Spanish war claims .

331 409, 1011 419, 1083
486

for support of the Army . for District of Columbia.

507,927 590, 956

for Fourth of July claims. for the naval service .

629 662, 1177

for Industrial Commission..

1

for deficiencies for transcripts from records,

etc

1

for removing snow and ice, Washington , D. C .....

for clearing Potomac River, D. C. , of ice .

for property taken from Confederate sol-

diers at Appomattox ...

43

for refunding drawbacks on articles ex-

ported to Philippines

55

for monument, Fort Phil Kearny massa-

cre site .

175

for additional land, Loudon Park National

Cemetery, Md ..

193

for destitute citizens, French West Indies . 198

Appropriations- Continued .

Page.

forroad tonational cemetery, Dover, Tenn. 277

for sanitarium, Hot Springs, S. Dak. , for

disabled volunteer soldiers

282

for storm-warning stations, South Manitou

Island, Mich ...

282

for light-house, etc. , Semiahmoo, Puget Sound, Wash

for Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Rail-

road and Steamship Company .

for refund of legacy, etc. , taxes ..

406

for purchase of Panama Canal ..

482

for concessions, etc. , Nicaragua Canal

482

for preliminary expenses Isthmian canal . 483

for congresses of navigation ...

for Lincoln Memorial Commission .

486

for monument to Gen. Hugh Mercer...

for gold medals of honor, relief of Arctic

whaling fleet .

492

for expenses, personal-tax appraisers, D.C. 622

for Supreme Court Reports, Revised Stat-

utes, etc

631

for Choctaw and Chickasaw citizenship

court expenses

648

for cash payments to Choctaws and Chick-

asaws ..

657

for quartermaster's warehouse, Omaha,

Nebr

730

for law library, Porto Rico district court .

for reimbursing Charleston Exposition Company expenses of Government

exhibit .

735

for assessor's office, D. C.

737

for guests, dedication of Rochambeau monument .

for expenses dedication of Rochambeau

monument ..

741

for contribution to prison-ship monument, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, N. Y ..... 747

for preserving order, etc. , Grand Army

encampment, D. C..

748

for repairs to Capitol roof, etc

751

for Anthracite Coal Strike Commission .. 758

for light-house, Mukilteo Point, Wash.... 765

for transportation , redemption of Hawaiian

silver coins.

771

for refunding certain tonnage taxes

771

for issuing arms, ammunition , etc. , to or-

ganized militia

777

for paying judgments, suppressing bubonic

plague, Hawaii ..

780

for redeeming certain certificates, D. C ... 788

for losses, wreck of U. S. S. " Charleston ". 804

for monuments, etc. , to mark positions of Regulars at Gettysburg Park
for light-house, etc. , Burrows Island, Wash.

for keeper's dwelling, Grosse Isle lights ,

Detroit River...

853

for statues of Pulaski and von Steuben

908

for relinquishment of railroad occupancy

of the Mall, etc. , Washington, D. C. 916

for monuments to Gens. Francis Nash and

William Lee Davidson ..

1229

no act to carry, unless declared in specific

terms

560

Aqueduct Bridge, D. C., appropriation for repairs, pier No. 5 ...... 598

change authorized to permit use by elec-

tric railway

781

repairs authorized from balance for pier

No. 4

751

Aquia Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of...........

351

Aransas Harbor Terminal Railway Company,

time extended for bridge, Corpus Christi

Channel, Tex

661

INDEX .

2043

Aransas Pass, Tex.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of; restric-

tion

340

Arapahoe Indians, appropriation for support, etc. , of.............. 255,991
Arapahoe Indians, Northern Cheyenne and, appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 251 , 987

Arapahoe Indians, Shoshone and, appropriation for fulfilling treaty with ... 253

Arbaugh, Joseph B. ,

pension increased.

1316

Arbitration (see also International Arbitra-

tion ), agreementwithMexico for, of " Pious Fund"

Arkansas, bridge authorized across Arkansas River in across White River in .... jurisdiction ceded to, over relinquished portion of Fort Smith Reservation .
laws of, relating to record of deeds, etc. , made applicable to Indian Territory .

Page. 38 40
921
841

Arkansas Coal and Mineral Railway Company,

maybridge Arkansas River at Moors Rock,

Ark

926

Arkansas Eastern Judicial District,

counties transferred to western

72

terms of court, Helena ....

795

Arkansas River,

222 20

claim

1916 bridge authorized across, Fort Gibson,

Ind. T ..

37

Arbitration and Award, D. C. ,

530

in Arkansas .

38

exception as to, extended.

926

Arbitration, Permanent Court of,

Moors Rock, Ark .

appropriation for international.

81 , 812 Arkansas River, Ark.,

convention establishing

1779

appropriation forimprovement of; dredges,

etc

357

Arbuckle, Harry C.,

764 Arkansas Western Judicial District,

claim referred to Court ofClaims ; payment .

counties transferred from eastern district . 72

Arcadia, Mich. , preliminary examination to be made of

Harrison division created

72

harbor ..

379 return of process, etc.; terms ; clerk ..... 72

Architect of Capitol, to be designated Superintendent ......

Arlington Experimental Farm ,
20 appropriation for expenses ; land included . 293, 1155

"Arctic," Bark, payment to owners of, rescue of seamen in
Arctic Sea ..

Arlington National Cemetery, Va. ,

appropriation for burial of indigent sol-

237 diers in, etc ..

464, 1128

Arctic Whaling Fleet,

gold medals of honor to revenue-cutter offi-

cers for relief of .......

492

Argentine Republic, appropriation for ministerto .
for secretary of legation .

76, 807 77,808

Armament of Fortifications,

appropriation for guns, mortars, etc ... 307, 1025

Armories (see also Arsenals and Armories) ,

appropriation for

458, 1121

Armory Warehouse Company,

payment to ....

1453

"Ariel," Schooner, payment of French spoliation claim on account of..
Arizona,

Arms,

233 appropriation for manufacture of, at armo-

ries ...

520, 942

for organized militia

942

appropriation for salaries, government in . 147, 882 Arms and Ammunition,

for contingent expenses

148 , 882 appropriation for issuing, etc. , to militia. 777

for legislative expenses ..

148, 882 Armstrong, Charles,

for surveyors-general, clerks, etc ..... 162, 897 pension increased

1289

for support, etc. , of Apache, etc. , In-

Armstrong, Edward H. ,

dians ..

255,992 pension increased

1331

for incidental expenses Indian service

Armstrong, Matilda (mother) ,

in

257,993 pension .

1246

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

Armstrong, William R.,

penses .

10 pension increased

1323

for surveyor-general

573, 1056

act for university buildings approved

330

authorizing storage reservoirs ratified .. 386

Chiricahua Forest Reserve, proclamation

establishing .

2019

consolidation and extension of San Fran-

Army (see also War Department ), appropriation for support of the ..... 507,927

for contingent expenses, Commanding

General's office ..

507

for contingent expenses, office of Commanding General or Chief of Staff.. 927

cisco Mountains Forest Reserve,

proclamation establishing

1991

for all contingencies .. for submarine defense school .

507, 927 927

exhibit of products at St. Louis Exposition
approved issue of bonds by Santa Cruz County au-
thorized Mount Graham Forest Reserve, proclama-
tion establishing .. Navajo County may refund debt ... public land receipts in, to be used for irri-
gation Santa Catalina Forest Reserve, proclama-
tion establishing .. Santa Rita Forest Reserve, proclamation
establishing ..
Arizona Central Railway Company, return requested from President of bill
granting right of way to ....

70 304 2017 330 388 2012 1989
1767

forcontingencies, military departments 507,928 for Historical Register of the Army... 928

for contingent expenses, military infor-

mation division ..

507, 928

for military service schools .

507,928

for Signal Service expenses .

507,929

Alaska, balance continued .

508

for pay of line officers; longevity . 508, 929

leave credits for volunteer service .... 508

for pay of enlisted men ; longevity for engineer battalions .

508,929 508,929

for Ordnance Department .

508, 930

for noncommissioned staff, not regi-

mental...

508

for quartermaster-sergeants .

930

for post commissary-sergeants

930

2044

INDEX .

Army Continued.

Page. Army-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for electrician sergeants ; 

master electricians

930

for Signal Corps

509, 930

appropriation for Subsistence Department;

supplies ...

513,934

extra-duty pay; civilian employees . 513,935

second-class privates to be called pri-

vates

509

commutation of rations, etc........ 513,935 transport service ; special diet rations;

temporary sergeants for Philippines

and Alaska.

509

for Hospital Corps . reorganization of

509, 930 930

for clerks and messengers at headquar-

ice, etc..

513,935

for Quartermaster's Department ; regular

supplies .

514,935

post bakeries; ice machines; schools,

etc

514,935

ters; appointment, etc ..

509, 930

for pay of staff officers ; Adjutant-Gen-

eral's Department; longevity .... 509, 931

Inspector-General's Department; lon-

gevity

509, 931

limitation of staff detail, etc

509

Engineer Corps ; longevity

510, 931

forage; stationery, printing, etc .... 514,935

purchases; contracts ..

514,935

equipment of post schools . for incidental expenses....

936 514,936

extra-duty pay; interments, etc ... 514,936

expenses of horses, etc for purchase of horses ; limit, etc ..

515, 937 515,937

Ordnance Department ; longevity .. 510,931 Quartermaster's Department; longev-

purchases from officers when changing

stations ...

937

ity.

510, 931

Subsistence Department; longevity . 510, 931

Medical Department; longevity . 510, 931

Pay Department; longevity

510, 932

Judge-Advocate-General's Depart-

ment; longevity ..

510, 932

Signal Corps; longevity

510, 932

officers added ; filling vacancies ..

932

officer for Executive Office

932

for officers, Record and Pension Office;

for barracks and quarters..
extra-duty pay change of specified posts limit to civilian employees..
Omaha depot, additional ground . for post exchanges... for shelter, etc. , in Philippines
for transportation... sale of transports restricted . on land-grant roads; basis ..

515,937 515, 937
515 516,937
937 516, 937 516, 938 516, 938
938 516,938

longevity . for retired pay, officers ; longevity.

510, 932 511 , 932

military storekeeper on duty at White

House

511

rank of ordnance storekeeper when

retired ...

511

detail for organized militia

932

longevity pay; restriction ..

511, 932

for retired pay, enlisted men

511 , 933

double allowance for China service... 933

for hospital matrons, nurses . for veterinarians ..

511, 933 511 , 933

for translator, etc. , military informa-

tion

511 , 933

for dental surgeons

511 , 933

for paymasters' clerks and messengers . 511 , 933

traveling expenses ..

511, 933

allowance for sea travel

511

for courts-martial, etc. , expenses.. 511 , 933

for officer in charge, public buildings

and grounds, D. C.

511, 933

for commutation of quarters, officers . 511 , 933

for travel, undrawn clothing, interest on

deposits, enlisted men

512, 933

for expert accountant ...

512, 933

for mileage, officers and contract sur-

geons ..

512, 933

for contract surgeons.

512, 933

transfer of pay, insular duty .

933

for 20 per cent, enlisted men ..

512, 933

balance available for roads, etc.,

Alaska ....

517

continuance of transport service .

939

for clothing, and camp and garrison

equipage .

517,939

indemnity, destroyed clothing

517,939

for post hospitals, construction, repairs,

etc ..

517,939

for quarters, hospital stewards.

517,939

for shooting ranges, etc

517,939

for general hospitals .

517

for Medical Department, supplies, etc. 518, 939

balance available for expenses .

518

preventing spread of epidemics.
open-market purchases, etc........... .. for Medical Museum ; library..............

940 518,940 518, 940

for Engineer Department, expenses,

etc

518,940

school, Washington, D. C... completion of school building equipment of troops services .

519,940 519, 941 519, 941 519, 941

for Ordnance Department, expenses .. 519, 941

annual medals, prizes, etc ...

941

for ammunition for small arms, etc... 519,941

for repairing and preserving ordnance

stores ..

520, 942

for ordnance stores .

520, 942

for infantry, etc. , equipments ..... 520, 942

for 10 per cent, commissioned officers . 512, 933

increase for service beyond mainland . 512

for computer, artillery board

933

for Army War College .

512, 927

balance of war emergency available

for buildings

512

for preserving, etc. , ordnance stores .. 520 , 942

for firing morning and evening gun .. 520, 942

for artillery targets, etc

520, 942

for manufacture of arms..

520, 942

purchases ; stores transferred to Phil-

ippines

942

for Porto Rico Provisional Regiment . 512 , 934 enlistment and service of Porto Ricans . 934

details to first lieutenancies, etc. , Ord-

nance Department ....

942

detail of Regular Army officers ...... 934

for Philippine scouts ..

512, 934 |

allowance for service of enlisted men

in volunteers, etc.

512, 934

monthly rates of computation of army

salaries

934

for volunteer medical officers .

513

acceptance of gift for memorial build-

ing ..

943

for pensions.

62, 761

for fortifications

305, 1024

for Military Academy ...

409, 1011

for inspectors of supplies .

150

for armories and arsenals ..

458, 1121

INDEX .

2045

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for bringing home remains

of officers and soldiers

464, 1128

of civilian employees, etc.

464, 1129

for military posts ..

464, 1129

leases in Hawaii .

465

Manila, Philippines ..

465

for target range, Fort Des Moines, Iowa. 465

for drill grounds, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans

.465

for Fort Crawford, Wis. , cemetery

465

for Fort Snelling, railway spur..

465

for Fort Myer, Va. , roadway

465

for Fort Sheridan , Ill ..

465

for Fort Monroe, Va ..

465

for arrears of pay, war with Spain, etc. 1138

for monuments, etc. , to Regulars at

Gettysburg Park

838

deficiency appropriation for military post,

Philippines

12

for fortifications

12

for shooting ranges, etc.

13

for Ordnance Department

13,

29, 586, 589, 1046, 1073

for contract surgeons .

13

for national defense .

29, 585

for pay ...

29, 563, 585, 589, 1072, 1076

two and three year volunteers

29

volunteers

29, 589

for bounty, volunteers

29

for officers' mileage .

29, 563, 585

for subsistence

29, 585, 589, 1073

for Quartermaster's Department .

29,

586, 589, 1045 , 1073, 1076, 1077

for Medical and Hospital Department .. 29,

586, 589, 1073, 1076

for torpedoes, harbor defense ...

29, 586

for hospitals...

94

for subsistence; cooks, etc. , on trans-

ports to Manila .

564

for Military Academy .

564

for Engineer Department ..

1045

for pensions .

1074, 1077

accounts of officers, war with Spain, to be

settled; allowance, etc

956

appointment authorized, James W. Long,

as captain, retired'

398

H. C. Merriam, as major-general .

796

Thomas H. Carpenter, as captain, and

placed on retired list...

824

George A. Detchemendy, as captain of

infantry, to be retired..

956

William Crawford Gorgas, as assistant

surgeon-general.

1022

Kensey J. Hampton, as captain and

quartermaster

1030

artillery colonels, maximum number of 1021

Baton Rouge barracks, transferred to Loui-

siana State University ..

172

brigadier-generals, maximum number

of

831

buildings for Young Men's Christian Asso

ciation, authorized on military res-

ervations ...

282

cadets' pay and subsistence established .. 409

maximum number at large ....

409

cavalry officers' lineal rank corrected :

Captains, James J. Hornbrook, Wil-

liam F. Clark, and Samuel G.

Jones ..

805

certificates in lieu of lost discharges .

629

Columbus Barracks, Ohio, land dedicated

to city

1230

detail of officers with Philippine constab-

ulary

783

General Staff Corps established ; duties, etc. 830

Army-Continued .

Page.

loan of tents authorized , Grand Army en-

campment, Washington , D. C ..... 749 Knights of Pythias, San Francisco, Cal. 187

Texas Reunion Association , Dallas Con-

federate reunion ...

737

purchases by States of stores, etc. , per-

mitted, for militia

778

Army Appropriation Bill,

committee of Senate and House appointed

to confer on...

1770

Army Posts, appropriation for Fort Constitution , N. H. 458

Army Regulations, militia to be organized , etc. , to conform to. 775

Army Supplies,

appropriation for inspectors of.....

150

Army War College (see War College, Army) .

Arnold, Addison,

pension .

1669

Arnold, Sydda B. ( widow) ,

pension increased ...

1572

Arnold, Welcome,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223, 225

Arrears of Pay, Volunteers, appropriation for

472, 1137

for, war with Spain and in Philippines . 1138

Arrears of Taxes, D. C.,

appropriation for advertising

596, 961

annual list of real property in, to be prepared 632

Arsenals and Armories,

appropriation for manufacture ofarms at . 520 , 942

for Rock Island , Ill .......

458, 1121

for Benicia, Cal ...

458

for Fort Constitution , N. H

458

for Sandy Hook proving ground, N.J. 458, 1121

for Dover, N. J., powder depot .

458, 1121

for Springfield, Mass ..

458, 1121

for Schuylkill, Philadelphia, Pa

458

for San Antonio, Tex

458

forWatertown, Mass. , testing machine . 458,1122

for Watertown, Mass. , barracks ..

458

for Augusta, Ga .

1121

for Frankford, Pa. , shrapnel shop ..

1027

for Watervliet, N. Y ..

1122

for repairs of ..

458, 1122

deficiency appropriation for Rock Island,

replacing stores destroyed by fire . 1046

for rebuilding storehouse ...

1046

Art, Bequests for Encouragement of,

refund of tax on..

406

Arthur Kill, N. Y. and N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

335, 1125

Arthur, William,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of......

211

Articles of War,

militia, when called into active service,

subject to ..

776

Artificial Limbs, appropriation for furnishing . deficiency appropriation for .
Artillery Board, Army, appropriation for computer....

467, 1131 29, 586, 589
933

Artillery, Chief of,

appropriation for submarine defense

school under

927

to serve as additional member of general

staff

831 , 1021

to have rank, etc. , of brigadier-general... 831 Artillery Corps, Army,

appropriation for electrical sergeants ; mas-

ter electricians, pay, etc ..

930

number of colonels limited .

1021

2046

INDEX .

Artillery Targets, etc., Army,

Page. Assistant to Attorney- General,

Page.

appropriation for .

520, 942

Artist, C. Edward, deficiency appropriation for services .... 573

Asbury Methodist Episcopal Church, Iowa,

payment to

488

appointment authorized , enforcement of

anti-trust laws ..

1062

Assisted Immigrants,

admission of, excluded ; relatives, etc. ,

excepted .

1214

Ash, Grace E. ( widow),

Association of Military Surgeons of the United

pension increased ..

1671

States,

Ash, Howard P.,

incorporated; purpose, etc

784

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing. 569 Astoria, Oreg.,

Ashby, Joseph K. ,

launch for customs service, authorized ... 70

pension increased .

1283

appropriation for ...

435

Ashland, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345
Ashley, James M.,

pension increased .

1398

Ashley River, S. C.,

bridges authorized across

493

Ashmore, Samuel,

pension increased .

1551

Ashtabula, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor

342, 463, 1124

for light-house

431

Asphaltum, etc. , Mineral Locations, Utah,

provisions for, Uncompahgre Reservation

lands

998

Assessment and Permit Work, D. C. ,

appropriation for .

596, 961

no exemptions for improvement except

public property ....

596

Assessments,

required annually, mining claims in Phil-

ippines

700

Assessments, Mining,

modifications permitted on oil locations under placer mining regulations .... 825

Assessor, D. C.,

to be chairman of appraisement and excise

boards

617

to prepare annual list of real property in

arrears for taxes ..

632

Assessor's Office, D. C. , appropriation for salaries.............
for extra clerks, arrears of taxes ..

592,957 737

deficiency appropriation for temporary

clerks ..

1042

Assignments, D. C.,

suits on bond of executor of defaulting

assignee...

530

Assistant Assessors, D. C. ,

appropriation for

592, 957

for additional

622

number increased to five ; term ..

617

composition of real estate and excise board . 617

personal tax appraisers ....

617

board of equalization and review .

617

duties of personal tax appraisers ..

617

Astrophysical Observatory , appropriation for maintenance . ...... 439 , 1101

Asuncion, Paraguay, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

| Atchafalaya River, La.,

appropriation for rectification of .

367

Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Com-

pany,

transfer of Santa Fe Pacific Railroad to,

authorized .

405

annual tax to Arizona and New Mexico . 405

Athens, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

427, 1083

Athens, Greece, appropriation for consul at

82,814

Athletic Grounds, etc. , D. C.,

license tax on owners .

625

Atkinson, George,

pension increased .....

1534

Atlanta, Ga.,

appropriation for penitentiary, building,

etc

473

subsistence .

478, 1143

clothing, transportation, etc miscellaneous expenses

478, 1143 478, 1143

hospital expenses..

478, 1143

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing; additional for site .

1039

for building, etc. , materials, peniten-

tiary ...

1063

for penitentiary, general expenses ... 1066

purchase of site for public building; entire

square; cost..

1211

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land ..

311

appropriation for..........

424

term of circuit court of appeals at....

548

Atlanta, Knoxville and Northern Railroad,

bridge of, across Little Tennessee River,

made a lawful structure...

94

Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,

transfer of rights

405

Atlantic City, N. J. ,

Assistant Attorney- General, appointment authorized, to be paid from fund for enforcement of trust laws .. 1062

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1083

Assistant Attorney- General, InteriorDepartment,

appropriation for assistants, inspectors,

etc

157,892

deficiency appropriation for public building 1038 limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205 Atlantic, Iowa,

Assistant Attorney- General, Post- Office Depart-

construction of public building authorized

ment,

at; nominal site .

31

appropriation for compensation ...

167, 903

appropriation for .

426, 1087

for assistants, clerks, etc..

164,900 Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, New York,

for printing, etc. , opinions of .. Assistant Attorneys- General,

1166 deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1079

appropriation for compensation .

167, 903 Atlantic Ocean,

Assistant Custodians and Janitors, Public Build-

provisions for canal to the Pacific .................... 481

ings, appropriation for

Atoka Agreement, 448, 1110 . supplemental agreement to, with Choctaws

deficiency appropriation for ... 28, 585 , 588, 1072 *

and Chickasaws

641

INDEX .

2047

Attachment, D. C.,

Page.

levying on property in hands of executor,

etc.; final account

530

provision for, of undivided partnership in-

terest, repealed ............

530

Attorney- General,

appropriation for, assistants, clerks, etc. 167 , 903

for special assistants to ...

475 , 1141

for twenty-fourth volume, Opinions of . 1139

an assistant to, authorized to be paid from

amount for enforcing anti-trust laws 1062

condemnation proceedings by, for irrigation

works

390

emergency, etc. , expenses subject to dis-

cretion of

474

may advance antitrust cases in circuit

courts

823

may increase marshal's bond, Alaska
may restore forfeited good-conduct commutation of prisoners ..
to appoint special counsel second-class mail suits ..

2 397 1174

to direct proceedings to prohibit discrimi-

nations by common carriers .

848

Attorney-General's Office ( see Department of

Justice) .

Attorneys, appropriation for special assistants to

Attorney-General, etc ......

475, 1141

Auchmoody, Wright H.,

pension increased ..

1274

Auckland, New Zealand,

appropriation for consul at

83

for consul-general at ....

813

Auctioneers, D. C. ,

license tax on ; returns of sales

623

Auditor for Interior Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks , etc .. 137 , 871

Auditor for Navy Department,.

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .. 136, 870

for extra force, war with Spain ac-

counts .

136, 871

Auditor for Post- Office Department,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks, etc ... 137,871

for furniture, books, etc...

902

Auditor for State, etc. , Departments,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc ... 137, 871

duties, as to accounts of Department of

Commerce and Labor ...

826

settlement of differences as to accounts,

with auditor of District ..

592

Auditor for Treasury Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc ... 136 , 870

for clerks on manifests .

136, 870

Auditor for War Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc ... 136 , 870 for extra force, war with Spain ac-

counts

136, 870

for restoring rolls .

136, 870

Auditor's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries .

592, 958

settlement of differences with Treasury

Auditor as to accounts

592

application to Comptroller as to legality

of accounts ...

592

decision final on accounting officers ..

592

preparation and countersigning of checks . 592

Augusta Arsenal, Ga., appropriation for sewer connection ....... 1121

Augusta, Me.,

limit of cost increased, public building

312

appropriation for .

424, 1083

purchase of additional land authorized for

public building .......

1207

Aungie, Harriet,

fee-simple patent to be issued to

1008

"Aurora," Schooner,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

226

Austin, Ann E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1398

Austin, James,

pension increased ..

1352

Austin, James,

pension increased ..

1484

Austin, Tex., terms of court

69, 785

Austria,

appropriation for minister to ..

76

for secretary of legation

77

for second secretary ....

77

pay of minister, etc. , available for ambas-

sador, etc

553

Austria-Hungary, appropriation for ambassador to
for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary ..

76, 807 77, 808 77, 808

Automatic Train Brakes and Couplers,

requirements for, by common carriers, ex-

tended to Territories, District of Co-

lumbia, etc.

943

to take effect Sept. 1 , 1903 .

943

Autovehicle Barns, D. C.,

license tax on proprietors ; additional .... 624

Auxiliary Cruisers, Navy,

appropriation for reserve guns ...

666

Auzburn, Penelope,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211

Avenues, D. C. ,

appropriation for work on...

598, 961

B.

Babcock, Avery D. , payment to
Babcock, Margaret I. , payment to
Bachelder, Charles E., pension increased .

237 237 1258

Bachelder, Marshall, pension increased.

1260

Back Pay and Bounty,

appropriation for payment of, volunteers 472 , 1137

Bader, James E.,

pension increased .

1527

Badger, Aaron C. , pension increased .

1276

Bagaduce River, Me. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

348

Bagley, Adelaide Worth (mother) ,

pension increased....

1264

Bahia, Brazil, appropriation for consul at
Bailey, Ella (daughter), pension .

82, 814 1300

Bailey, J. F. , and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment. 764

Bailey, Laurence D.,

payment to heirs of.

237

Bailey, Lunsford Y.,

pension increased.

1400

Bailey, Mary A. (widow),

pension .

1455

Bailiffs, United States Courts, .

appropriation for pay; attendance ..... 476 , 1141

deficiency appropriation for pay, etc. 32,590 , 1066

Baird, Charlotte E. (widow) ,

pension increased.

1536

Baker and Comegys,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of surviving partner . 222

2048

INDEX .

Baker, Charles H., pension increased .

Page. Bankruptcy Act Amendments,

Page.

1282 additional compensation to receivers, etc.,

Baker City, Oreg.,

for conducting business of bank-

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase ofpublic building site authorized . 1208

Baker, Francis C. ,

pension increased ..

1556

rupts

797

act of bankruptcy: to apply for receiver,

or if a court puts property in charge

of receiver

797

mining pursuits added to corporations who

Baker, George, pension increased ....

1537 1

may be adjudged involuntary bank-

rupts .

797

Baker, Margaret, formerly Maggie Ralston, pension

1354

bankruptcy of corporation no release of

officers' liability.

797

Baker, Mary,

additional grounds for refusing discharge:

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 216

Baldwin, Charles O.,

pension increased.

1427

intentionally concealing financial

condition

797

obtaining property on false written

statements

797

Baldwin David A., pension increased .
Baldwin, George R., pension increased .
Baldwin, Sarah F. ( widow) , pension increased .
Ball, Henry, pension increased...

1738

transfer, etc., of property with intent to

defraud, etc.

798

1514

prior discharge as voluntary bankrupt.. 798

refusal to obey order of court, etc..

798

1428 criminal, etc. , liabilities not affected by

discharge

798

service of petition by publication modified 798

1311 time for appearance reduced

798

Ball, Lillie V. ( widow) , pension increased .

1718 wife of bankrupt may be examined ..

798

limited to her business transactions ....

798

Ball, William E., pension increased .

powers of trustees extended to recover 1440
from preferred creditors, and prior

Balloons, Launching Projectiles, etc., from,

conveyances, etc

798

international declaration prohibiting for

five years

1839

referees allowed for proof of claims filed.. 799 trustees to file copies of decrees, etc.; com-

Ballou, Alice M. (widow) ,

pensation

799

pension increased ..

1284 trustees' compensation modified

799

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company (see also

claims of creditors with voidable prefer-

Union Railroad Station, D. C. ) ,

ences or conveyances, etc. , not al-

claim of, as agents for Interstate Improve-

lowed unless same are surrendered . 799

ment and Construction Company, referred to Court of Claims ; payment . 764

preferences qualified by date of prior trans-

fer, etc.

799

provisions for new terminal station, etc. ,

Washington, D. C

909

concurrent jurisdiction given State courts

for recovery .

800

freight-traffic facilities, Washington, D. C. 912 debts having priority; expenses of recov-

Baltimore, Md. , appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

ering property transferred, etc. ,

added

800

fice; salaries ..

143, 877

forimprovement of harbor, and approach 335

for improvement of southwest harbor ;

contracts ....

336, 1125

Curtis Bay channel

336, 1125

contracts .

336

for public building, custom-house ... 420 , 1083

rent, temporary quarters ..

420, 1083

for addition to subtreasury

1083

completion of light-station , Patapsco

River ...

329,559

payment to, claim for advances, war 1812 . 235

Bamberg, Germany, appropriation for consul at
Bangkok, Siam, appropriation for consul -general for interpreter to consulate-general.. for prison expenses

83, 815
76, 808 78,809 87,819

Bangor, Me.,

appropriation for public building; repair-

ing bridge.

424, 1083

limit of cost increased, public building ... 312

limitations on paying first and final divi-

dends...

800

concurrent jurisdiction to State courts over

voidable conveyances, etc ....

800

dockets and indexes of bankruptcy cases

by clerks of district courts ; free in-

spection

800

compensation to referees and trustees lim-

ited

800

pending cases not affected ..

801

Banks, D. C., Incorporated,

personl tax on

619

Bannock Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 253,990

proclamation opening to entry of lands in

Idaho ceded by Shoshone and ..... 1997

Bar Harbor, Me., purchase of public building site authorized 320

appropriation for

428

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site .

1038

limit of cost increased, site for public

building

1207

Bank Checks, etc.,

Baraboo, Wis.,

imprinted, to be returned to owners after

construction of public building authorized

cancellation of revenue stamps

736

at

319

Bankers, D. C., Private, personal tax on .. description of

appropriation for . 621 Barbados, West Indies, 621 appropriation for consul at

427, 1083 82,814

Bankrupt Laws, etc. , Compilation,

Barber, A. W. ,

ordered printed

1774 deficiency appropriation for

21

INDEX .

2049

Barber, George M.,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 211

Barber, I. I.,

may select public lands in Mississippi,

under bounty land warrant ...

1503

Barcelona, Spain,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

Barcus, John A.,

pension increased ..

1676

Barger, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .......

1728

Barger, Sarah B. ( widow) , pension increased ..
Barkalow, Gilbert, pension increased .

1657 1524

Barker, William S.,

pension increased ..

1541

Barley,

appropriation for study of suitability of,

for brewing, etc

297

Barlow, Otis A. ,

pension increased ..

1463

Barmen, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .

81 , 813 86, 818

Barnard, John,

pension increased..

1328

Barnes, Charles H. ,

pension increased .

1680

Barnes, Elias E.,

payment to

237

judgment of Court of Claims in favor of,

not to be paid .

1070

Barnes, Israel F.,

pension increased ..

1659

Barnes, Marion (widow) , pension ..
Barney, A. H., claim of, as agent for Northern Pacific Rail-
road, referred to Court of Claims ; payment ..

1343 764

Barnum, Joseph H. , pension increased .
Barr, T. W., payment to
Barracks and Quarters, Army,

" 1295 489

appropriation for construction , repair,

etc

515, 937

sale of posts, Indianapolis, Columbus,

and Buffalo

515

new sites and buildings authorized ... 515

for shelter, etc. , Army in the Philip-

pines

516, 938

for Fort Constitution , N. H.

458

deficiency appropriation for

29,

for, Philippine Islands balance reappropriated
School, D. C ..

586, 589, 1073, 1076 1045
for Engineer 519

Barranquilla, Colombia, appropriation for consul at
Barrett, Charles, pension increased
Barrett, Emily S. (mother), pension .
Barrett, William, pension increased .
Barrett, William, pension increased .
Barrooms, D. C., license tax on
Barrows, H. A. , credit in accounts .
Barry, George W., Dension increased .

83, 815 1466 1545 1564 1678 627 570 1454

Barstow, William M., pension increased ..

Page. 1422

Bart, Joseph,

pension increased ....

1650

Bartlet, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of Bartlett, Archer,

222, 226, 228 1

pension .

1454

Bartlett, John Russell,

may be appointed rear-admiral, Navy re-

tired list

821

Bartlett, Nellie (widow) ,

pension .

1263

Bartlett, Ruth (daughter) ,

pension .

1345

Bartlett, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to as-

signee of.....

230

Barton, Jacob,

pension increased .

1305

Basin City, Wyo.,

town-site patent to ..

95

court-house and school squares to county

and school authorities

96

Basle, Switzerland, appropriation for consul at
Bass, D. C., closed season reduced ....

81 , 813 536

Bassett, Thomas, pension increased .....
Batavia, Java, appropriation for consul at .

1666 85,817

Bates, James E.,

pension

1506

Bates, Sarah L. ( widow) ,

pension ..

1590

Batesville, Ark. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

427, 1083

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1206

Batey, Charles K.,

pension increased

1537

Bathing Beach, D. C.,
appropriation for expenses; fees, etc............... for expenses; floating baths
deficiency appropriation for care, etc. authority for, revoked ; new site ... Baths, D. C., Turkish, etc., license tax on

600 965 1042 459
626

Baton Rouge, La. ,

military barracks transferred to State Uni-

versity ...

172

Battery Point, Wash.,

appropriation for fog-signal....

431

Battle, C. W.,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing postal revenues, suit against ............... 1036
Battle Creek, Mich. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1083

limit of cost increased , public building ... Battle Mountain Sanitarium, Hot Springs,
S. Dak. , appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-
diers' Home ...

1204 1136

forconstruction, etc.; additional land . 282, 1137

Battle Ships, Navy,

construction of two first-class, 16,000-ton,

authorized ; cost ..

690

three first-class, 16,000-ton , authorized ;

cost ..

1202

VOL XXXII , PT 2----52

2050

INDEX .

Battle Ships, Nary-Continued. construction of two first-class, 13,000- ton , authorized; cost ..
Baxter, Frank E. ,
deficiency appropriation for services ..... Bayliss, Amanda C. ,
pension Bayly, Mary R.,
pension . Bayou Bartholomew, Ark.,
time extended for bridging ..
Bayou Bartholomew, La., appropriation for improvement of........
Bayou Corney, La.,
appropriation for improvement of................... Bayou D'Arbonne, La.,
appropriation for improvement of...................... Bayou Grossetete, La.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. Bayou Lafourche, La.,
appropriation for improvement of ...................... preliminary examination of, to be made,
for lock and dam; contribution by State

Page. 1202 572 1380 1720
41 355 355 355 378 355
378

Bayou Macon, La.,

appropriation for improvement of ..................... 355

Bayou Manchac, La.,

appropriation for improvement of..

355

Bayou Teche, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of ...........

355

Bayou Tigre, La.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 378

Bayou Vermilion, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of, channel,

etc

355

construction of locks, etc. , authorized in.. 766

Beach, H. W., payment to ..
Beach, Mrs. E. C., payment to
Beachboard, Alexander, pension ..
Beal, John,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Beals, Mary ( widow),
pension increased .. Beans, Isaiah B.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to executrices of

487 487 1295 215 1386
216

Bear and Company, Sol,

payment to, refund of internal-revenue

stamps ..

1503

Beauchamp, William S.,

deficiency appropriation for losses

557

Beaufort Inlet, N. C., preliminary examination to be made of

waterway from Norfolk, Va .....

381

Beaufort, N. C. , appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 337

for improvement of waterway to New

River ...

352

for marine biological station .

443, 1105

deficiency appropriation for marine biolog-

ical station

10

Beaufort River, S. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

353

preliminary examination of, to be made

382

Beaufort, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of inland

waterway from Charleston ....

352

Beaumont, Tex.,

limit of cost increased , public building .... 311

appropriation for .

424, 1083

cooperation with, for deeper channel to

Sabine Pass

356

Beaumont, Tex. -Continued .

Page.

preliminary examination to be made of ship

channel to Sabine Pass .

383

terms of court

69

Beaver, J. B.,

payment to ..

487

Beaver River, Pa.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 382

Beaver, Samuel S. ,

pension .

1388

Beckett, Elizabeth L. (widow),

pension

1472

Beckett, James M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 213 Beckwith, Edwin,

pension increased .

1485

Bedford and Morton,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner .... 226
Bedford, Ind.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site..

1039

66 purchase of public building site authorized . 1208 'Bee," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

229

Beebe, Eugene, and Ferrie Henshaw,

compromise of suits against, as sureties on

certain bonds ..

786

Beebe, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1498

Beehler, W. H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

568

Beer,

internal-revenue tax on, reduced ......

96

Beery, Solomon,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 216 Beet Sugar,

appropriation for investigating produc-

tion of.

295, 1156

Beets, George W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

213

Beggars,

admission of alien, excluded ....

1214

Beirut, Syria,

appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ....
Belden, Henry,

83, 815 86, 818

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Belfast, Ireland, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .............
Belgium,

81 , 814 86,818

appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation ...
extradition treaty with

76,807 77,808
1894

Belize, British Honduras, appropriation for consul at
Belk, William , pension increased .

. 83, 815 1585

Bell, Margaret (widow),

pension ...

1728

Belligerents, international regulations respecting, in

land warfare ...

1811

Bellinger, J. B.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

565

Benefeldt, Frederick, pension increased....

1552

Beneficial Associations, D. C.,

penalty for false representations for resto-

ration to membership ......

534

INDEX.

2051

Benicia Arsenal, Cal.,
appropriation for magazine ... Benner, Israel A.,
pension increased .

Page. 458
1297

Bennett, De Witt C.,

pension increased .

1388

Bennett, Henry R. ,

pension increased ..

1652

Benson, Henry F., pension increased .

1339

Benson, Jonathan B.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrators of....

211

Bentalou, Paul,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Bentz, Louis,

fee-simple patent to .

1008

Benyaurd, W. H. H. ,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts .

556

Bequests (see Legacies ) .

Bereman, Sarah D. (widow),

pension increased ..

1565

Bering Sea (see Alaskan Fur Seals ) . Berlin, Germany,
appropriation for consul-general at for clerk hire ................

81 , 813 86, 818

Bermuda,

appropriation for weather station, main-

tenance .

288, 1149

Berne, Switzerland, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

83, 815 86, 818

Berrill, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Berry, George W.,

pension increased .

1586

Berry, William,

pension increased .

1341

Bertholf, E. P.,
deficiency appropriation for reimbursing . gold medal of honor to, relief of Arctic
whaling fleet .. Bessemer, Ala. ,
deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase of public building site authorized

19 492 1039 1208

Bethesda, Md. ,

appropriation for animal experiment sta-

tion

290, 1151

for additional land ..

290

Bethlehem Steel Company,

to complete contracts of Bethlehem Iron

Company

308

"Betsey," Brig, Goodhue, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of...

228

"Betsey," Brig, Hubbard, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

228

"Betsey," Brig, Turner, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

224

"Betsey," Schooner, Bowles, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.....

230

"Betsey," Schooner, Moody, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of...

219

"Betsey," Schooner, Wyman, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

228

"Betsey," Sloop, Blankenship, Master, payment of French spoliation claim on account of..
"Betsey," Sloop, Rhodes, Master, payment of French spoliation claim on account of..

Page . 219
221

Beverly, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 332

Beverly, William,

payment to ...

490

Bevis, Lucy B. (widow) ,

pension increased ....

1312

Bice, Jesse W. ,

pension increased ..

1382

Bickerstaff, Mary C. (widow),

pension .

1487

Biederbick, Henry,

to be enlisted as sergeant Signal Corps,

and retired ..

1455

Biennial Register, 1903,
appropriation for preparing Big Black River, Miss. ,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. Big Hatchie River, Tenn. ,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. Big Horn Forest Reserve, Wyo . ,
proclamation extending boundaries of....

897 380 382 2004

Big Jim's Band, Absentee Shawnee Indians, Okla. ,
appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 256, 993
Big Kanawha River, W. Va. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Big Sandy River, W. Va. , right of waygranted through Locks 2 and 3. 1030
Big Sandy River, W. Va. and Ky. ,

appropriation for improvement of, by locks

and dams

358, 1127

for improvement ofTug and Levisa forks ;

contracts .

358

for improvement of, completing dams

between mouth and Louisa ..

358

Big Stone Lake, Minn. and S. Dak. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made ; to

improve Minnesota River

379

Big Sunflower River, Miss., appropriation for improvement of........ 355

Bigelow, Charles P. , pension

. 1644

Biggs, W. W.,

payment to ...

491

Billiard Rooms, etc. , D. C. ,

license tax on, continued ..

628

minors not permitted in, connected with

barrooms

202

Billingsley, James, pension increased ..
Billposters, D. C., license tax on; regulations
Bills of Lading, Export, refund of stamp tax on.

1616 627 406

Bills of Sale, Ind. T. ,

provisions for recording

841

Biloxi, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 339

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1084

preliminary examination to be made of

channel to Ship Island ....

380

Binford, John D.,

pension increased..

1586

Binghamton, N. Y.,

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land ..

312

appropriation for

424

2052

INDEX.

Biographical Congressional Directory, printing ordered ..
Biological Division, Department ofAgriculture, appropriation for salaries .. for general expenses

Page. 1773
298 298

Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries..

1160

for general expenses

1160

Birch, F. L.,

payment to

491

Bird, William M. , and others,

deficiency appropriation for investigating

liability of, public building, Charles-

ton , S. C.

1037

reimbursement to, as sureties of D. A. J.

Sullivan

374

Birds, Wild,

protection from wanton destruction,

Alaska ..

327

Birmingham, Ala., terms of court

821,832

Birmingham, England, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...
Birth and Death Registration,

82, 814 86, 818

cooperation of States requested to secure uniformity in
Bisbee, Elisha T. , Elisha B. Taylor alias, pension increased..

1231 1257

Biscayne Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

338, 1126

contract with Florida East Coast Railway

" Company, additional improve-

ments

338

Bishop Gutta Percha Company,

duplicate check to; indemnity bond ..... 1607

Bishop, Martha J. (widow),

pension .

1704

Bismarck Land Office, N. Dak. ,

deficiency appropriation for reproducing

records

21

Bittman, Peter,

pension increased .

1347

Bixby, Caroline W. (widow ),

pension increased .

1687

Black Death,

appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450, 1113

Black, George W. ,

pension increased .

1244

Black Hills Region,

preliminary description of geology, etc. ,

ordered printed

1771

Black Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

at Holland

343

Black River, Ark. and La.,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams .

357, 1127

Black River, Ark. and Mo. ,

appropriation for improvement of

357

Black River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of

361

Black River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of .....

352

Black River, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342, 463, 1125

life-saving station established at mouth of,

Lorain .

982

Black River, S. C., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Black Rock Harbor, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of Lake Erie entrance ; contracts ............ 335, 1125 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Black Warrior River, Ala.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of........... 354, 1126

right of way granted through lands of

Lock No. 4 ..

189

Blackburn, John B.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

211

Blackburn, Thomas,

granted honorable discharge

1351

Blackfeet Agency Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 250 , 986

Blackfeet Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ... 245,982

Blackfeet Indian Reservation, Mont., confirmation of selections on, in lieu of for-

est lands...

955

Blackman, Lorenzo,

pension increased ..

1320

Blackwater Bay, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377 Blackwater River, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Blades, James M.,

pension increased ......

1584

Blagge, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of



Blain, Edward R. ,

pension increased ..

1423

Blanchard, William,

pension increased.

1407

Blankinship, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

219

Blanks and Norton,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

1036

Bleight, George C.,

payment to .

490

Blight, Peter,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

218, 222, 225

Bliss, Thomas,

pension increased.......

1321

Blitz, Charles,

pension

1439

Block Island, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of refuge .

for improvement of harbor, Great Salt

Pond

333

for Weather Burean cable from Narra-

gansett Pier

1149

Block, Johanna C.,

title in lot 1 , square 1113, Washington, D.

C., released to ...

1269

Blodgett, Richard N.,

pension increased ..

1263

Blood, Albert,

pension increased...

1592

Blood, Alfred O.,

pension increased ..

1576

Blossom, David H., deficiency appropriation for services .....
Blount, Augustus (father), pension ...
Blue Book, 1903,
appropriation for preparing ... Bluefields, W. Va. ,
deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase ofpublic building site authorized . terms of court

572 1602
897
1039 1208 304

Bluff Shoal, Pamlico Sound, N. C. ,

appropriation for light-house

70

INDEX.

2053

Blunts Reef, Cape Mendocino, Cal., appropriation for light-ship..
Board of Audit, D. C., appropriation for redeeming certain certificates ..

Page. 1093
788

Board of Children's Guardians, D. C. ( see Children's Guardians, D. C. , Board

of).

Board of Education, D. C. , appropriation for

603, 967

Board of Ordnance and Fortification,
appropriation for general expenses . for civilian member... for expenses of members ..

310, 1027 310, 1027 310, 1027

for tests of experimental guns, etc .. 310, 1027 inquiry as to right to invention before

making tests, etc..

310, 1027

Board of Visitors,

appropriation for expenses Military Acad-

emy .

413, 1015

for Naval Academy

686 , 1196

Boarding Houses, D. C.,

license tax on public....

628

Boardman, William H.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Boatman's Insurance and Trust Company,

Saint Louis, Mo. ,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ..

1078

Boca Grande, Fla.,

appropriation for quarantine station , site,

etc

423

Boeuf River, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of.....

355

Bogardus, Benjamin S.,

pension increased ..

1542

Bogue Chitto, La.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

355

bridge authorized across, by Saint Tam-

many Parish

839

Bogue Falia, La., appropriation for improvement of........ 355

Bogue Inlet, N. C.,

life-saving station authorized at ..

58

Boice, Martin,

pension increased .....

1450

Boise City, Idaho,

appropriation for salaries, assay office .. 146, 881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 146 , 881

for public building..

420

Boker, Albert,

military record corrected ...

1407

Bolivia, appropriation for minister to extradition treaty with... money-order convention with parcels-post convention with
Bombay, India, appropriation for consul at

76, 807 1857 1868 1948
83, 814

Bond, Benjamin N. ,

pension increased .

1690

Bond Issues, Philippines,

for acquisition of property of religious

orders

706

for improvement of municipalities

707

for sewers and water supply, Manila .

708

Bond, Nathan,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228 , 229, 231

Bonds,

issue by Hawaii to pay bubonic-plague

judgments

780

Bonds -Continued .

Page.

issue of 2 per cent, for expenses, Isthmian

canal

484

redemption; exemption from taxation .. 483

subscriptions ; expenses .....

484

Bonds, Municipal,

authorized issue by towns, Indian Terri-

tory

200

for schools, etc. , Oklahoma

392

Bonds of Administrators, etc. , D. C. ,

limit of actions on

529

Bone, Martha H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of..............

207

Bonham, John S. ,

pension increased .

1485

Bonneau, Francis N. ,

pension increased .

1628

Booker, Richmond L.,

pension increased .

1352

Books, etc. , D. C. ,

not used in Departments, etc., to be turned

over to Library of Congress and

Free Public Library

865

punishment for stealing, mutilating, etc. ,

the property of the District ....

535

Books, John N. ,

payment to

489

Boomhower, Herbert A. ,

pension increased..

1362

Boone, Iowa,

construction ofpublicbuilding authorizedat 318

appropriation for ...

427, 1084

Borchsenius, George V. , deficiency appropriation for payment to .. 24

Bordeaux, France, appropriation for consul at

81 , 814

for clerk hire .....

86, 818

Bordman, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Bortle, Samuel,

pension increased ...

1473

Boston, Mass.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice; salaries ...

143, 877

for improvement of harbor

332, 462, 1125

deep-water channels ; contracts .

332

for light-house, Broad Sound channel ;

contracts .

430

change of location

1092

for range lights, Lovells Island

430

Spectacle Island .

430

for public works, navy-yard .

672, 1185

light-houses, etc. , established, mouth of

harbor ..

93

one appraiser at port; salary increased ... 715

permitted to improve and use Governors

Island .

743

Botanic Garden,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, and laborers

131 , 866

for labor and material.

131 , 866

for general repairs, etc ..

479, 1145

deficiency appropriation for fuel and labor 1069 Botanical Investigations,

appropriation for expenses Boteler, Barton,

292, 1153

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

210

Boteler, Robert H., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Bougher, John, pension increased ..
Boughton, William O., pension increased ..

211 1754 1738

2054

INDEX .

Boundary, Alaskan,

Page.

appropriation for tribunal to determine .. 1138

Boundary, Canadian,

appropriation for demarcation of, west of

Rocky Mountains

1138

Boundary Commission , Mexican Water, appropriation for .

80, 811

Bradford, England, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire
Bradley, Andrew, payment to
Bradshaw, George W., pension increased .

Page. 81,814 86,818
487
1518

Boundary Convention,

Bradshaw, Rhody Ann (widow),

with Great Britain, as to Alaska ......... 1961 pension increased .

1268

Bounty,

Brady, Thomas V. ,

appropriation for, volunteers ..

472, 1137 payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211

for seamen's enlistment .

664 Brakes, Locomotive Driving Wheel,

deficiency appropriation for, volunteers . 29, 589 requirements for use of, extended ....

943

for, destroying enemy's vessels .. 31,587 , 1074 | Brakes, Train,

for, seamen's enlistment

31 , requirements for use of automatic, ex-

587,589, 1074, 1076

tended

943

settlement of claims for, destroying

Bramble, James A. ,

enemy's vessels

27 pension increased .

1321

Bourke, Abbie (widow),

Brandenburg, Edwin C.,

pension .

1512 deficiency appropriation for indexing Code 561

Bourne, Fred, and D. T. Johnson,

Brandt, Aaron E.,

appropriation for paying estate of........ 268 payment to

489

Bouslough, William H. H., pension increased .
Bowden, Alonzo S. , pension increased .
Bowden, Bailey O. , pension increased ..

Branford, Conn.,

222

1661 appropriation for improvement of harbor. 000

Branham, Edward A.,

1748 pension

1551

Bransford, John F.,

1537 transfer on naval retired list authorized ..... 1529

Bowden, William F., pension .

Branson, John L. ,

1484 pension increased .

1407

Bowen, George K.,

Brant, Belle V.,

granted honorable discharge

1276 payment to ..

491

Bowen, John,

Brattain, John W.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 572 pension increased .

1719

Bowen, Sarah (widow), pension increased ..
Bowers, George F., pension increased .
Bowers, Sarah (widow), pension .
Bowland, James D. , pension increased ..
Bowling Green, Ky., terms of court .
Bouman Act, appropriation for paying claims allowed under ..
Bowman, Jacob, charge of desertion removed..
Bowman, John L., pension increased .
Boyd, Caroline R. (widow), pension increased ..
Boyd, George B. , pension increased ..

1716 1379 1279 1374
58
207 1515 1364 1369 1255

Brawner, Henry C. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of .....

216

Bray, Leah,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .......

213

Brazer, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

229

Brazil, appropriation for minister to ...

76,807

for secretary of legation ...

77,808

deficiency appropriation for charg, John

C. White

553

Brazos River, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of mouth . 340

for improvement of, Velasco to Rich-

mond ....

356

purchase of canal

356

for improvement of, Richmond to Old

Washington .

356

Boyd, Margaret M. (widow),

Breckons, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1340 pension increased ...

1465

Boyd, Robert,

Breitling, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

payment to

ministrator of

224 Bremen, Germany,

Boyer, Samuel J. ,

appropriation for consul at

pension increased .

1660

for clerk hire....

237
82,814 86,818

Boyington, Charles S. , pension increased ..

Bremerton, Wash. (see Puget Sound Navy-

1691

Yard, Wash. ) .

Bozeman, Alice (daughter) , pension
Bozeman, Mont.,
appropriation for fish hatchery . Brabham, Stanton L.,
pension increased ..
Brace, Leman A., pension increased .

1320 1106 1533 1663

Bremmer, Abbie C. (widow) , pension increased..
Brenizer, F. L., payment to
Brennan, Margaret ( widow) , pension ..
Breslau, Germany, appropriation for consul at

1526 491 1648 84,815

Bracken, Charles W., pension
Bradfield, Abraham, pension increased ..

Breton Bay, Md., 1649 appropriation for improvement of ....... 336
Brewers, D. C. , 1338 license tax on, and agents ; effect, etc.... 627

INDEX .

2055

Brewster, Elias, pension ..
Brewster, Oscar, pension increased ...............

Page. 1562
1619

Brickell Mary,

payment to

487

Bridge and Highway Commissioners, Conn. ,

may bridge Connecticut River at Hart-

ford, Conn ..

836

Bridgeport, Conn., restriction on public building site repealed 850

Bridges,

appropriation for construction, etc., Oma-

ha and Winnebago Agency, Nebr.. 265

for construction Pottowatomie Indian

Reservation, Kans ..

265

construction of, authorized across Ala-

bama River, Ala

772

Allegheny River, at Pittsburg, Pa ..

837

Bogue Chitto, La ..

839

Arkansas River, Fort Gibson, Ind. T.

37

in Arkansas ..

38

Moors Rock, Ark .

926

Ashley River, S. C ....

493

Calumet River, Cummings, Ill

660

Hammond, Ind

660

Chattahoochee River, Columbus, Ga .. Martin Ferry, Ala...
Clinch River, Dossett, Tenn . Columbia River, Vancouver, Wash. Conecuh River, McGowans Ferry, Ala . Connecticut River, Hartford, Conn .... Cumberland River, Nashville, Tenn.... Current River, Randolph County, Ark. Devils Lake, N. Dak.. Duluth Canal, Minn . East Saint Andrews Bay, Farmdale, Fla . Emory River, Harriman, Tenn ... Manatee River, Fla .... Mississippi River, Burlington , Iowa...

192 1225 793 277 852 836 390
4 265
3 72 499 190 74

between Champlin and Anoka, Minn . 407

in Minnesota..

391

Little Falls, Minn

505

Missouri River, Chamberlain, S. Dak .. 833

Council Bluffs, Iowa, and Omaha,

Nebr

56, 921048

Kansas City, Mo ...

Kansas and Missouri .

754

Oacoma, S. Dak

762

Parkville, Mo

102

Pierre, S. Dak

658

Plattsmouth, Nebr ..

496

Saint Joseph, Mo.

36

South Omaha, Nebr

91

Monongahela River, Allegheny County,

Pa ...

839

Clairton Station, Pa ..

58

Morgantown, W. Va ..

71

Webster, Pa

850

West Elizabeth to Dravosburg, Pa .

497

Neuse River, Kinston, N. C.

180

Ouachita River, Ark .

89

Ohio River, Allegheny, Pa.

178

Pearl River, Miss ..

187

Smiths Ferry, Miss

924

Rainy River, Minn ..

801

Red River, Shreveport, La

181

Saint Francis River, Ark .

834

Saint Francis, Ark ..

1031

Savannah River, Ga. and S. C ..

280

Sand Bar Ferry, Ga ...

760

Savannah, Ga ..

104

Tennessee River, Tenn ..

492

Lewis Bluff to Guntersville, Ala .

921

Marion County, Tenn ....

201

Waccamaw River, Conway, S. C.

387

Bridges-Continued .

Page.

construction of, authorized across White

River, Ark .

40

between Baxter and Marion counties . 185

Newport, Ark.......

396

time extended for, across Bayou Bartholo-

mew, Ark .

41

Corpus Christi Channel, Tex ..

661

Cumberland River, Carthage, Tenn .

925

Illinois and Mississippi Canal ..

374

Missouri River, Oacoma, S. Dak .

305

Saint Charles, Mo ...

181

Yankton, S. Dak ..

35

Niagara River, Grand Island, N. Y.

73

across Little Tennessee River, Niles Ferry,

Tenn. , made lawful structure ..

94

Saint Lawrence River, Hogansburg,

N. Y., declared a lawful structure .. 34

height may be reduced of, across Monon-

gahela River, Pittsburg, Pa .....

75

rebuilding draw span of, across Mississippi

River, Quincy, Ill. , allowed ...

120

report on necessary changes to, across Ohio

River..

360

Bridges, D. C.,

appropriation for care; repairs ......... 598 , 964

for raising grade, etc., Massachusetts

avenue

598

for Aqueduct, pier No. 5

598

for Potomac River highway, time ex-

tended, cost increased .

598

for constructing Connecticut avenue,

across Rock Creek; cost, etc ..

964

changes in Aqueduct, for electric street

railway

781

Bridgman, Charles R.,

pension increased ..

1298

Brigadier-Generals, Army,

chief of artillery to have rank, etc. , of.......... 831

maximum number of ..

831

Briggs, Caleb C.,

pension increased .

1403

Briggs, Emily (mother),

pension ..

1445

Briggs, Ida M. ( widow),

Brpeinsoionn.

1372

John F.,

pension increased .

1686

Brigham, Robert,

payment to

1699

Brill, George W. ,

pension increased ..

1616

Brill, John,

pension increased ..

1413

Briscoe, Samuel,

pension increased .

1260

Bristol, England, appropriation for consul at ......

84, 816

Bristol, Tenn.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

9

Brittingham, Benjamin,

pension increased ...

1274

Broad Sound Channel, Mass.,

light and fog signal established, entrance

to

93

Brobst, David,

pension increased .

1631

Brockett, James R. ,

pension increased .

1374

Brockville, Canada, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Brockway, Solomon P. ,

pension increased..

1456

Broggan, Frances C. ( daughter) ,

pension ...

1651

2056

INDEX .

Brokers, D. C., General, personal tax on.. description of. payment by Washington Stock Exchange . members of other exchanges ....
Brokers, D. C. , Note,
personal tax on.. description .. Bronson, Anne (mother) , pension .. Bronx River, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of........ Brooklyn Ferry Company, claim for damages for collision , referred to
court of admiralty payment of decree ...

Page. 621 621 622 622
622 622
1512
349
242 242

Brooklyn, N. Y. ,

appropriation for contribution to prisonship monument, Fort Greene Park. 747

for lookouts to protect mail in post-office . 1090

Brooks, Jonathan, deficiency appropriation for reimbursing . 569
Brooks, Peter C.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

219 ,

219, 221 , 228 , 228, 228 , 231 , 233

Brooks, Peter Chardon,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

218, 224, 230, 231

Broom, J. L. and W. L.,

payment to

487

Brosius, Hon. M., late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow ...

581

Brosnan, Jane (widow),

pension increased .

1549

Broussard, Augustine,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

210

Brower, John G.,

pension increased ...

1287

Brown, Albert C.,

payment to

237

Brown, Annie E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1349

Brown Brothers and Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

as agents for Diamond State Iron Com-

pany referred to Court of Claims ;

payment ...

764

Brown, Charles E. ,

pension increased .

1438

Brown, Cora E. (daughter),

pension

1589

Brown, George,

pension increased ..

1640

Brown, George W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 217

Brown, J. H.,

payment to

487

Brown, J. M. ,

appointed a manager, National Home for

Disabled Volunteer Soldiers ....

738

Brown, James,

pension increased....

1536

Brown, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

223, 225

Brown, John,

pension increased ..

1385

Brown, John,

pension increased ..

1751

Brown, John M.,

pension increased ..

1483

Brown, Milton,

Page.

pension increased ..

1406

Brown, Nelson,

pension increased .

1552

Brown, R. M. G., may be nominated commander on naval

retired list

63

Brown, Rachel (widow),

pension increased .

1470

Brown, Samuel,

pension increased .

1539

Brown, Stephen C. , Mary E. McDonald and,

payment to..

1239

Brown, Vesta A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1429

Brown, Webster,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Brown, William,

pension increased .

1414

Brown, Zephaniah,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221 , 223

Browne, Moses,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Brownlow, Eliza A., mother,

pension

1406

Brownlow, Walter P., appointed a manager, National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers ....... 738

Browns Point, Wash.,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion ..

431

Brownsville, Tex.,

terms of court

68

Bruce, Mary T. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1270

Bruck, David T.,

pension increased ...

1471

Brucken, Anton,

may construct locks and dams, Pond River,

Ky ..

732

Bruff, John W.,

pension ..

1569

Brummett, Wesley,

pension .

1457

Brunk, George, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 216

Brunswick, Ga., appropriation for improvement of harbor. forC. P. Goodyear, improving outer bar.
for public building... for building, etc. , quarantine station limit of cost increased, public building . appropriation for ..

337 338 420 1091 311 424

Brunswick, Germany, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Brush, Anna O. (widow),

pension ..

1758

Brussels, Belgium, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

for clerk hire.....

86, 818

Bryan, Edward,

pension ...

1723

Bryson, Peter,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Bubonic Plague,

appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450 , 1113

Bubonic Plague Judgments, Hawaii,

appropriation for paying part for property

destroyed ..

780

bond issue authorized to pay balance .

781

exempt from taxation ..

781

sale; use of proceeds

781

INDEX .

2057

Bubonic Plague Judgments, Hawaii- Cont'd. Page.

maximum allowance to attorneys ....

781

payments; to be in full....

781

Buchanan and Young,

payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of surviving partner. 220, 224

Buchanan, William G.,

pension increased .

1548

Buck, Alfred E., appropriation for payment to widow ..... 811

Buckholz, Joseph A.,

pension increased.

1618

Buckingham, Joshua H.,

pension .

1276

Buckley, Peter,

pension .

1645

Bucksport, Me. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 331

Budapest, Austria-Hungary, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Budd, Enos G.,

pension increased ..

1397

Buell, Leroy N., pension increased .

1749

Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire.....

82, 814 818

Buffalo,

deficiency appropriation for purchase of,

for Yellowstone Park ..........

574

Buffalo Bayou, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

356, 1127

Buffalo Exposition,

deficiency appropriation for paying credit-

ors; conditions ...

555

Buffalo, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor ....

335, 462

limit of cost increased, public building

313

appropriation for

424

sale of old public building ; minimum price 324

marine hospital authorized at

90

appropriation for

423

contracts authorized

423

change of military post at, authorized .

515

appropriation for new site and building . 515

Buffalo, Wyo.,

granted lands, Fort McKinney abandoned

reservation......

908

Building Associations, D. C.,

personal tax on..

620

Building Stone Lands,

entries for, in Philippines..

702

Buildings and Grounds, D. C. (see Public

Buildings and Grounds, D. C. ) .

Buildings, D. C. , duty of surveyor in adjusting lines of.... regulations of height of, modified .... churches outside fire limits . allowance for intersecting streets, etc ... modification of business and resident street limitations
reductions of height for projections special schedule for blocks adjoining pub-
lic building sites . restriction on wooden buildings .. rules for measurement of height .

545 1022 1022 1022
1022 1023
1023 1023 1023

Bulgaria,

appropriation for diplomatic agent in .... 807

Bulkley, Frederick,

pension increased

1526

Bullard, Rachel E. (widow),

pension...

1672

Bulletin of American Republics,

Page .

monthly edition by Public Printer au-

thorized

88, 812

Bullion and Coin,

appropriation for freight on

140, 875

Bullock, Thomas,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Bump, George E.,
pension increased

212 1498

Bundren, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

207

Bunn, May E. (widow) , pension .
Buoyage, appropriation for expenses deficiency appropriation for .

1631
432, 1094 1072

Burch, Joseph W.,

pension increased

1296

Burchfield, James P., pension increased

1317

Bureau for Publishing Customs Tariffs, Inter-

national,

appropriation for contribution ..........

80, 811

Bureaufor Repression of African Slave Trade,

appropriation for contribution .

80, 811

Bureau of American Republics,

appropriation for; use of receipts from all

sources .

88,812

edition of Monthly Bulletin by Public

Printer

88,812

Bureauof Animal Industry (see Animal Industry Bureau).

Bureau of Chemistry ( see Chemistry Bureau ) .

Bureau of Construction and Repair, Navy,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

155, 890

for construction, etc. , vessels

682, 1193

limit, wooden ships ..

682, 1193

forimprovement of construction plants .. 682, 1193

for steel tugs

683

for steel ammunition lighter, Cavite,

P. I ..

1193

for civil establishment

683, 1193

deficiency appropriation for construction

and repair

1051 , 1073, 1076

Bureau of Corporations (see Corporations, Bureau of).
Bureau of Education (see Education , Bureau of) .
Bureau of Engraving and Printing ( see Engraving and Printing, Bureau of) .

Bureau of Equipment, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc.
for coal and transportation for equipment of vessels .. for ocean and lake surveys for coal depots .. for contingent .. for civil establishment
deficiency appropriation for coal ..

153, 888 667, 1182 667, 1181 668, 1182
668 668, 1182 668, 1182
16

for equipment of vessels . 16, 566, 567, 1050, 1051

for contingent

30, 566, 1073, 1076

for ocean and lake surveys

1050, 1073

for Western Electric Company

1051

Bureau of Forestry (see Forestry Bureau) .

Bureau ofImmigration (see Immigration, Bureau of).

Bureau of Insular Affairs, War Department,

established; duties

712

detail of army officer as chief; rank .

712

appropriation for rent..

886

2058

INDEX .

Bureau of Manufactures (see Manufactures, Page. Bureau of).

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc .. for surgeons' necessaries for hospitals . for contingent for repairs for hospital, Mare Island, Cal . for hospital, Canacao, Philippines . for naval hospital, New York ..

155, 890 678, 1190 678, 1190 678, 1190 679, 1190
679 679 1190

for new buildings, naval hospital, Wash-

ington ....

1190

for naval laboratory, New Yorkhospital . 1190

for hospital building, Yokohama, Japan . 1190

deficiency appropriation for repairs .

17

for surgeons' necessaries, etc. 17, 566 , 568 , 1051

forcontingent. 17 , 566 , 568, 568, 1050 , 1052 , 1073

forrepairing laboratory, Brooklyn , N.Y. 568

for reimbursing Richardson Clover ... 568

for W. H. Beehler...

568

for Kuy-Scheerer Company .

1052

for John Kenny , jr .

1052

for H. W. Wingard ..

1052

Bureau of Navigation, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc.

153, 888

for transportation , recruiting, and con-

tingent

663, 1178

for gunnery exercises

664, 1178

for outfits, enlisted men .

664, 1178

for maintenance of colliers

664, 1178

for training station, California .

664, 1178

Rhode Island

664, 1178

for Naval War College

665, 1179

for Naval Home

665, 1179

for public works.

676, 1188

deficiency appropriation for James A.

McMahon .

15

for transportation, etc for outfits for landsmen

30, 566, 567, 1051 , 1073
1050

for gunnery exercises for training station, Rhode Island
California ..

1050, 1073 1051 1051

Bureau of Navigation, Treasury Department (see Navigation, Commissioner of) .

Bureau of Ordnance, Navy,

appropriation for clerks, etc ....

155, 890

for ordnance and ordnance stores ... 665, 1179

balances made available ....

1179

for reserve supply ammunition

666, 1180

for converting guns to rapid fire

666, 1180

for smokeless powder

666, 1180

for smokeless- powder factory

1180

for new batteries, "Newark, " " New

Orleans," and "Albany "

666

for new battery, "New York "

1180

for equipping storehouse, New York.... 666

for naval gun factory

666, 1180

for machine tools, Pensacola .

666

for tools, etc., Puget Sound, navy-yard . 666

for new machinery, gun factory

666

for reserve guns

666

reappropriation

666

for torpedo station .

666, 1180

for naval militia ..

666, 1180

for repairs for miscellaneous for civil establishment

666, 1180 666, 1180 667, 1180

for public works, magazines, etc .... 677, 1189

deficiency appropriation for ordnance,

etc

16, 1051

for repairs for armament new vessels ..

16, 566, 1050 16

for contingent ...

30, 586 , 1073, 1076

Bureau of Plant Industry (see Plant Industry Page. Bureau).
Bureau of Soils (see Soils Bureau) .

Bureau of Standards ( see National Bureau of Standards ).

Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department (see

Statistics, Bureau of, Treasury De-

partment ).

Bureau of Steam Engineering, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc.

155,889

for steam machinery ..

683, 1194

for purchase of stores, etc

683, 1194

for contingent ..

684, 1194

for tests of liquid fuel .

684

for machinery plants .

684, 1194

for testing laboratory, Annapolis, Md .. 1194

for civil establishment.

684, 1195

deficiency appropriation for machinery . 566,

1051, 1073

for boilers " Raleigh "

568

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, Navy,

appropriation for civilian assistant, duties,

etc

890

for clerks, etc

155,890

for provisions naval ration modified .

679, 1190 679

for contingent .. for clothing and small stores fund for civil establishment

680, 1191 1191
680, 1191

deficiency appropriation for provisions ;

transfer of appropriation..

17

for provisions ... 30, 566, 586, 589, 1051 , 1073

for contingent .

30, 566, 586, 1073, 1076

Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy,

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

156, 890

for maintenance ..

669, 1182

for contingent ...

669, 1183

for civil establishment

669, 1183

for public works ..

671, 1185

for repairs and preservation for preparing plans, etc

676, 1188 676, 1188

for naval station, Guantanamo, Cuba ... 1188

deficiency appropriation for maintenance. 17,

566, 567, 1051

for repairs and preservation for water supply, New York.

567,567 567

contracts may be entered into to complete

works authorized ....

676

Burford, Preston W.,

pension ..

1567

Burger, Charles F. ,

pension increased .

1242

Burgess, Halcott T.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .

210

Buri, Theodore,

pension ...

1729

Burke, Amanda (widow),

pension increased.

1726

Burke, Erwin A. , alias Burt A. Erwin,

pension

1405

Burke, Hon. R. E. , late a Representative in

Congress, deficiency appropriation for widow .............. 581

Burke, John,

pension increased....

1752

Burke, Mary E., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 216

Burke, William,

pension increased ........

1544

Burket, John S.,

pension increased ..........

1401

Burlington, Iowa,

limit of cost increased, public building... 311

appropriation for

424, 1084

INDEX .

2059

Burlington, Iowa-Continued .

Page. Butter,

Page .

time extended for bridging Mississippi

imitation, etc. , made subject to State, etc. ,

River at...

74

laws.

193

Burlington, Vt.,

definition of, and imitation .

194

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 331 Butterine (see also Oleomargarine ) ,

for public building

429, 1084 subject to State, etc. , laws ..

193

deficiency appropriation for public build-

Byers, John W. ,

ing, temporary quarters......

1039 payment to..

1453

present public building to be sold ..

1209 Byrnes, Daniel J.,

construction of new building authorized 325, 1210 pension increased .

1535

temporary building to be erected; cost ... 1210

sale on completion of new building .

1210

Burnett, John L.,

C.

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses..

582 Cable, Submarine,

Burnham, John W., pension increased

appropriation for military, to Alaska from

1302

Seattle, Wash

929

Burns, Catherine, payment to .
Burns, Henry, pension increased
Burnside, Myron C., pension increased
Burr, Lonson R., pension increased
Burrell, Samuel, pension increased

237 1284 1356 1367 1630

Cable, Sidney (widow),

pension

1377

Cache River, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of ....... 357

Cadets, Military,

appropriation for pay

409, 1011

to be paid expenses in taking examination . 409

pay and commutation of ration fixed...

409

appointments at large..

410

appointment from Porto Rico, authorized . 1011

Burrill, Elizabeth A. (widow) , pension ..
Burrows, Frank J., credit in accounts of, for stolen postal funds . payment to
Burrows Island, Wash.,

1417
1604 1604

Cadets, Naval (see Midshipmen. )

Cadiz, Spain, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Cairo,

appropriation for agent and consul-general 76, 808

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

light-house, etc. , established appropriation for ....

853 Calais, France, 853 appropriation for consul at .......... 83 , 815

Burton, Ambrose,

Calais, Me.,

pension increased

1252 purchase authorized of public building site 320

Burton, Henry E.,

appropriation for

429

pension increased .

1568 deficiency appropriation for public build-

Burton, Melissa (widow),

ing site

1038

pension... Buse, Johanna (widow) ,

1442 limit of cost increased, site for public

building .

1207

pension .........

1704 Calcasieu River, La.,

Bush, Philip, payment of Court of Claims judgment to

appropriation for improvement of mouth

and passes

340

administrator of .

210 Calcutta, India,

Bushnell, Arthur J.,

pension .

1442

Bushnell, Gilbert E.,

pension increased.

1688

Busteed, Robert H.,

pension increased .

1518

Butler, George W.,

pension increased

1438

Butler, James J.,

deficiency appropriation for contested -elec-

tion expenses ..

... 582, 1067

Butler, Pa.,

deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase of public building site authorized

1039 1208

Butler, Samuel, and Son, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner . 224

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

Caldwell, Hamlin,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .........

208

Caldwell, Jacob D. ,

pension increased ..

1292

Caldwell, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ..

231

Calgy, Mary,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of.......

214

Calhoun, Frederick, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

Calhoun, Sandy, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

California,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

162 , 898

Butler, Thomas, pension ..
Butner, J. H. and F. M., payment to ..
Butner, James H., payment to..
Butte, Mont., appropriation for public building ...

1282
487
487 1
1084

for purchasing land for Mission Indians . 257

for incidental expenses Indian service

in

257,993

for restraining mining dbris ; contracts . 369

deficiency appropriation for volunteers . 30, 1073

additional copies of bulletin on irrigation

in, ordered printed ...

1768

grant to, in lieu of lands occupied by Mis-

limit of cost increased, public building ... 312

sion Indians ..

822

2060

INDEX .

California-Continued .

Page.

proclamation restoring part of lands of

Mission Indians to public domain .. 1970

additional..

2005

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

resurvey of lands in San Diego County ... 728

California Dbris Commission, appropriation for expenses deficiency appropriation for

467, 1132 29

California Indian Disturbances,

pensions to survivors, etc. , of ......

399

California State Prison,

deficiency appropriation for clothing, etc. ,

to navy prisoners on discharge

1054

....

Calkins, Elias . ,

pension increased ....

1420

Call, Samuel J.,

gold medal of honor to, relief of Arctic

whaling fleet ....

492

Callao, Peru,

appropriation for consul at

81 , 813

Calman and Company, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner ... 226

Caloosahatchee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 353

Calumet, Ill.,

appropriation for light station keeper's

dwelling

431

for improvement of harbor ..

463, 1125

light-house keeper's dwelling authorized . 107

modification of breakwaters authorized .. 343

Calumet River,

bridge_authorized across, at Cummings,

Ill ..

660

at Hammond, Ind .

660

Calumet River, Ill. and Ind. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 363

Calumet, Wis.,

appropriation for dredging harbor.....

362

Calvo, Arturo R.,

may receive instruction at West Point .... 747

Cambria Iron Company,

claim of agents for, referred to Court of Claims; payment .
Cambridge, Md. , appropriation for improvement of harbor .
Camden, Me., appropriation for improvement of harbor .
Cameron, Angus, pension increased .
Cameron, Charles K., pension increased ..
Cameron, John J.,

764 336 331 1526 1628

deficiency appropriation forpaymentto . 582 , 1068

Camp Chase, Ohio,

appropriation for wall, Confederate ceme-

tery

464

Campbell, A.,

payment to.

486

Campbell, A. W. ,

payment to

630

Campbell, Ellen D. (widow),

pension ..

1714

Campbell, Emma F. ,

payment to

491

Campbell, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

207

Campbell, James F.,

pension increased .

1701

Campbell, James M. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

estate of

207

Campbell, James P., pension increased .
Campbell, James T., payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of .....

Page. 1634
207

Campbell, John C.,

pension increased ..

1412

Campbell, John S. ,

pension increased .

1624

Campbell, John W. ,

pension increased .

1472

Campbell, Joseph D. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 207

Campbell, Lizzie A. (widow) ,

pension

1271

Campbell, S. W. ,

appropriation for advances, etc ....... .... 1000 Campbell, White B.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 207

Campbell, William A. ,

pension increased

1369

Campbell, William K.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

214

Canacao, P. I.,

appropriation for naval hospital

679

Canacao Shipyard, Carite, P. I.,

deficiency appropriation for damages to

wharf....

1053

Canada,

appropriation for demarcation of boundary with, west of the Rockies . .................. 1138

citizens of, exempt from immigration tax . 1213

money-order convention with

1875

rules for entry of aliens from, to be pre-

scribed

1221

Canal, Interoceanic (see Isthmian Canal ) .

Canal, Interoceanic Ship,

treaty with Great Britain to facilitate con-

struction of

1903

Canarsie Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Canceling Machines, Postal Service,

appropriation for rental or purchase of . 111 , 1169

limit of rental .

1169

report on advisability of purchase, etc .... 1169

Canfield, Alonzo F. ,

pension increased .

1695

Canfield, Justus,

pension increased

1360

"Canonicus, " Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation referred to

Court of Claims

244

Cantley, William G.,

pension increased

1555

Canton, China, appropriation for consul at
for consul-general at . for clerk hire ....
Canton, S. Dak., appropriation for asylum for dians .

insane

81 813 86,818
In264,999

Canty, John,

pension increased...............

1547

Cape Ann, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge, Sandy Bay ; report .......

331

Cape Charles City, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

anchorage ...

336

Cape Cod, Mass.,

examination of east shore for harbor of

refuge directed .

333

INDEX .

2061

Cape Fear River, N. C.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of, above

Wilmington ..

352

below Wilmington ..

352

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

Cape Haitien, Haiti, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Cape Lookout Shoals, N. C.,

appropriation for light-ship

1092

Cape Small Harbor, Me.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Cape Spartel Light, Morocco, appropriation for contribution ..

79, 810

Cape Town, Africa,

appropriation for consul-general at ..

81 , 813

for clerk hire ..

86, 818

for contribution to foreign hospital ... 87 , 819

Capehart, Elizabeth A. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1384

Capen, James A. ,

pension increased ..

1658

Capitol,

appropriation for repairs, etc ..

451 , 1113

no change in east front to be made

1113

for flags..

451 , 1113

for cleaning, etc. , works of art ..

451 , 1113

for improving and care of grounds .. 451 , 1114

for lighting building and grounds ... 451, 1114

for repairs, etc. , to stables.

451, 1114

for steel shelving

451

for repairing roof; balance

751

for new boilers, Senate wing .

1113

for steel file cases, Senate ..

1113

for site for office building, House of

Representatives ....

1113

for trees, etc .....

1123

deficiency appropriation for repairs, etc.. 19, 570, 1055

for filter, Senate wing .

20

for improving grounds .

20, 570

for lighting, and grounds

20, 570, 1055

for shops..

570, 1055

for document room , House of Representa-

tives ..

570

for shelving, House library.

570

for S. H. Woodbridge .

570

for Dallas Jones, Edward Minor, and

Edward Poindexter...

570

Architect of, to be designated Superintend-

ent

20

no intoxicating liquor to be sold in limits

of, building.

1221

Capitol Building and Grounds,

appropriation for Superintendent, clerks ,

etc ..

161 , 896

for laborers, etc ....

161 , 897

Capitol Building and Grounds, Superintendent of,

appropriation for, clerks, etc

161 , 896

for engineers, etc. , House of Represent-

atives .

125, 859

Senate ..

123, 856

Capitol Police,

appropriation for captain, lieutenants, etc. 124, 857

uniforms to be worn when on duty

857

for contingent expenses ...

124,857

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay .

583, 1066

to be paid December 1901 , salaries, Decem-

ber 18..

734

December, 1902, salaries, December 18 .. 1229

Carbondale, Pa.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site..

1039

purchase of public building site authorized 1208

Card, Mary J., payment to

Page. 490

Cardiff, Wales,

appropriation for consulat .....

... 83, 815

Cardwell, Benjamin,

pension increased ..

1636

Caribbean Sea,

provisions for canal to the Pacific Ocean. 481

Carlin, Celestine T.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

210

Carlile, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension ...

1344

Carlisle, Pa.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 262 , 1002

Carlton, Nelson W.,

pension increased .

1572

Carmack, Joseph W. ,

payment to

240

Carmichael, Hamilton,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of...........

214

Carnegie Brothers and Company, Limited, claim referred to Court of Claims; payment 764

Carnegie Library, Pittsburg, Pa. ,

patent specifications, etc. , western judicial

 district to be deposited in ..

746

Carney, Patrick,

pension increased .

1747

"Caroline," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

223

"Caroline," Ship, Glazier, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

232

"Caroline," Ship, Treadwell, Master,
payment of French spoliation claim on account of...
Carpenter, A. Curtis Steever ( widow), pension increased ..
Carpenter, David O., pension increased.
Carpenter, Robert, pension increased .
Carpenter, Thomas, H., may be appointed captain of infantry, and retired ..

223 1247 1518 1547
824

Carr, Charles W.,

payment to

1647

Carr, James W.,

payment to

490

Carr, John H.,

pension increased .

1739

Carr, Lydia (daughter) , pension ...
Carrabelle Harbor, Fla.,

.... 1371

appropriation for improvement of East

Pass

338

Carrere, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrators of..

221

Carriage-Making Establishments, D. C. ,

license tax on

628

Carriages,

tests of disappearing, directed.

307

Carriages, Gun and Mortar,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc

307, 1025

for cast-steel top, for mortars .

1026

Carroll, Catharine A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1563

Carroll County, Ga.,

transferred to northern district from north-

western division .

42

2062

INDEX .

Carrollton, Ky.,

Page. Cattle Dealers, D. C.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for public build-

license tax on

624

ing

9 Cattle Diseases,

Carrot Island Slough, N. C.,

deficiency appropriation for suppressing,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381 1

Bureau of Animal Industry...

758

Carrow, H. H.,

powers to suppress contagious, transferred

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 212

to Secretary of Agriculture .

791

Carrow, S. R. ,

printing special report on , authorized ............ 743

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 212 Caudle, Carl R.,

Carson and Neuman College,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 572

payment to trustees...

1261 Caughey, Thomas L.,

Carson, Nev.,

pension increased ..

1561

appropriation for salaries, mint at ...... 145, 879 Causten, Isaac,

for wages, contingent expenses .. for Indian school ...

145 , 879 269, 1002

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Cartagena, Spain, appropriation for consul at ...
Carter, Reuben F. , pension increased

84, 816 1620

Carter, Sarah A. (mother), pension ..
Carter, Shedrick, payment to
Carters Creek, Va. , appropriation for improvement of......

1331 490 351

Cartersville, Ga., First Baptist Church of,

payment to..

1599

Carthage, Tenn.,

time for bridging Cumberland River ex-

tended ..

925

Cartmill, James M. ,

pension increased ..

1733

Caruthersville, Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

Carwell, J. B. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 216

Cary, Dudley,

pension increased ..

1466

Casa Grande,

Cave, Charles R., payment to
Caveats of Patents,

... 1452

restriction of privilege to American citizens

only, removed ...

1227

Cavender, Lucinda W. (widow) ,

pension ...

1242

Cavite, P. I,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion

676, 1188

for steel ammunition lighter..

1193

Cayuse Indian War,

pensions to survivors, etc. , of .................

399

Cayuse Indians, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 257, 993

Cedar Bayou, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of...................... 356

Ceiba, Honduras,

appropriation for consul at .......

85,816

Cely and Brother,

payment to

490

Cemeteries, D. C.,

notice to Commissioners of disinterments

by order of court .

534

Cemeteries, National ( see National Cemeteries) .

appropriation for custodian of ........ 454, 1117 Census,

Cascade Range Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

to be taken in Philippines .....

693

proclamation extending ..

1972 Census ofthe Philippines,

"Casco," Ironclad Monitor,

balance of appropriation for Twelfth Cen-

claim for extra compensation, referred to

sus made available for

1059

Court of Claims ..

244 Census Office,

Case, Absalom, pension increased....

1583 appropriation for Director, statisticians, clerks, etc .. 896

Case, Scott,

for special agents

896

pension increased .......

1622

for rent .

896

255555 2 223 22

Caslow, Philip,

pension increased .

1663

Caspar, Stanley M., pension increased ..
Castellamare di Stabia, Italy, appropriation for consul at

1521 84, 816

Castle Island, Mass.,

appropriation for light-house depot, Sec-

ond district .

430

repealed ...

853

Catania, Italy, appropriation for consul at ....

84, 816

Catlettsburg, Ky.,

terms of court at.

58

Caton, Jane (widow),

pension ..

1378

Catskill Creek, N. Y. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Cattle (see also Animal Industry Bureau) ,

appropriation for inspection of, and car-

casses ..

289, 1150

for stationery

896

for contingent expenses

for books, etc ...

for transcripts of records

for rent of tabulating machines

896

for printing and binding ..

1145

of unexpended balance, Twelfth Census 456

deficiency appropriation for preserving

records of prior censuses

19

permanently established .

51

work of Twelfth Census to July 1 , 1902 . 51

Director; appointment, salary, and duties.

office force; bond of disbursing clerk..... 51

retention of employees ....

51

preference for military service ..

52

new appointments to be under civil-serv-

ice rules

52

provisions for taking Twelfth Census, continued for subsequent ones
special statistics to be collected preparation of schedules ..

for quarantine stations for imported ,

etc

289, 1151

for quarantine stations for domestic . 290, 1151

to be termed " Special Reports of the

Census Office "

52

special agents; statistics from institutions 52

INDEX .

2063

Census Office-Continued.

Page.

special statistics ; deaf, dumb, and blind

statistics; inquiries limited ...

52

*** * ** ** * ** 8

vital statistics to be collected annually .

52

restricted to public registration records. 52

statistics of manufactures under factory

system every ten years from 1905 .. 52

of annual cotton production ; weekly re-

ports ....

53

special industries by order of Congress . 53

special agents; appointment and compen-

sation ....

53

use of clerical force in lieu of

53

printing office turned over to Public

Printer

53

printing and binding to be done at Gov-

ernment Printing Office ..

53

acts repealed .......

53

appointment of unskilled laborers author-

ized

506

irrigation statistics to be completed to

date .

747

payment to Twelfth Census clerks not re-

appointed ...

571

transfer of records from Interior Depart-

ment to ....

767

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor ....

826

Census Records,

appropriation for care of Eleventh and

prior.....

157

deficiency appropriation for preserving .

19

transfer of all, to Census Office..

767

copies to be furnished States, municipali-

ties, etc.

768

Centerville, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site.

316

appropriation for

426, 1084

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased, public building . 1205

Central Arizona Railway Company,

granted right of way, San Francisco Moun-

tains Forest Reserve, Ariz...

907

Central Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ..

1080

Central Railway of West Virginia,

may bridge Monongahela River, Morgan-

town, W. Va

71

Cereals,

appropriation for expenses, standardizing

wheat, etc..

292

Certificates of Deposit, imprinted, to be returned to owners after cancellation of revenue stamps .... 736

Ceylon, India, appropriation for consul at
Chadwick, John D. , payment to

84, 816 1759

Chafee, Noah F.,

pension increased .

1302

Chalfant, James A. ,

pension .

1495

Chalmers, John, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Chalmers, John, sr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Chamberlain, Enoch B. ,

payment to

487

Chamberlain, S. Dak.,

Page.

appropriation for Indian school......... 269, 1002

bridge authorized across Missouri Riverat . 833

Chamberlin, Edgar T.,

pension increased ..

1468

Chamberlin, George, pension increased ..
Chamberlin, Samuel H., pension .
Chamberlin, William H. , pension increased..
Chambers, Mary, payment to
Chambers, Rebecca L. (widow) , pension ..
Chamblin, Delany and Scott, deficiency appropriation for . payment to
Champaign, Ill., purchase of public-building site authorized appropriation for construction authorized of public building at
deficiency appropriation for

1441
1434
1635 1262 1594
556 1426
321 429
1206 1038

Champlin, Minn. , bridge authorized across Mississippi River between Anoka and .......
Chanaberry, Freeman, R. E. , pension increased .
Chandler, Adella C. (widow) , pension ..
Chandler, Esek B., pension increased .
Chandler, John, pension increased .
Chandler, Marvin, pension increased .
Chaney, George R. , pension increased .
Change of Name, D. C. , proceedings in equity court for; petition by infant publication required

407 1336 1279 1475 1240 1507 1342
543 543

Chaplain,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives .

124, 858

for, Senate..

121 , 854

Chapman, Mary E. (mother),

pension

1293

Chargs d'Affaires, etc., appropriation for deficiency appropriation for

76, 808 5, 1033

Charitable Bequests,

refund of tax on ..

406

Charitable Entertainments, etc. , D. C.,

exempt from license tax

625

Charities and Corrections, D. C., appropriation for board of charities

610, 976

for Washington Asylum.. for Reform School

610, 976 611, 977

for Reform School for Girls ..

612, 977

for conveying prisoners to workhouse . 612, 977

for medical charities .

612, 977

for child-caring institutions . for temporary homes
for indigent insane for relief of the poor

612, 978 613, 979 613, 979 614, 979

for transporting paupers

614, 979

Charles and McBrayer,

payment to

490

Charleston, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor .

337, 462, 1124

for improvement of inland waterways .. 337

2064

INDEX .

Charleston, S. C. -Continued .

Page .

appropriation for improvement of water-

way to Beaufort ..

352

for public works, naval station ; cost in-

creased

675, 1186

reconveyance of land

1186

deficiency appropriation for investigating public building contract.
preliminary examination of harbor of
refuge reimbursement to sureties on contract for
public building ............

1037 382 1610

Charleston, S. C. , Exposition,

appropriation for reimbursing Exposition

Company for expenses of Govern-

ment exhibit ...

735

deficiency appropriation for paying claim

against

556

articles for, admitted free of duty

734

from Buffalo Exposition may be trans-

ferred in bond, free of duty ..

734

soid, to pay duty imposed at date of im-

portation .

734

buildings, etc. , constituted constructive

bonded warehouses and yards ; ex-

penses

734

disclaimer of pecuniary liability .

734

Charleston, Suburban and Summerville Rail-

way Company,

may bridge Ashley River, S. C .......

493

"Charleston," U. S. Navy,

appropriation for losses of officers and

crew, wreck of

804

Charleston, W. Va.,

terms of court ..

304

Charlesworth, James F. ,

pension increased

1272

Charlevoix, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

Charlotte Harbor, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of

353

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Charlotte, N. C.,

appropriation for salaries, assay office .. 146, 881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147 , 881

erection of Shipp monument permitted on

grounds of mint

739

Charlotte, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334
Charlottesville, Va.,

construction of public building author-

ized at .

319

appropriation for terms of court ..

427, 1084 552, 794

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, appropriation for consul at .
Chase and Jameson,
deficiency appropriation for damages Chase, Franklin,
pension increased . Chase, Hannah C. (widow),
pension ...

84, 816 557 1654 1416

Chase, M. V. B. ,

right of United States to land in Mont-

gomery, Ala. , released to .....

788

Chase, May Mosher (widow ),

pension increased .

1696

Chase, Ransford T. ,

pension increased .

1554

Chatfield, William C. ,

pension increased ..

1732

Chatham Artillery, Ga.,

payment to

487

Chatham, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

Page. 83, 815

Chattahoochee River, Ga. and Ala. ,

appropriation for improvement of

353

bridge authorized across, Eufaula, Ala. , and

Columbus, Ga .....

192

Chattanooga, Augusta and Charleston Air Line

Railway Company,

may bridge Savannah River ........

280

Chattel Deeds, D. C. ,

limit to conditional sales under ..................

533

Cheat River, W. Va. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Cheboygan, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 343

Chedester, James H.,

pension increased .

1539

Cheese,

imitation, etc. , made subject to State, etc.,

laws ...

193

Chefoo, China,

appropriation for consul at

82,814

Chefuncte River, La., appropriation for improvement of.................... 355

Chehalis River, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of...... 347

Chemistry Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries....

296, 1157

for general expenses .

296, 1157

for investigating food, etc. , adultera-

tions ....

296, 1157

for investigating food preservatives .. 296, 1158

for establishing standards of purity,

etc

296, 1158

for dairy products investigation .. for study of cereals

297, 1158 297, 1158

for sugar-producing plants; sirup ... 297, 1158

Chemnitz, Germany,

appropriation for consul at

82,814

for clerk hire ...

86,818

Cheney, George J.,

pension increased .

1673

Cheney, Ozro F.,

pension increased .

1617

Cherokee, N. C.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 269, 1002

Cherokee Nation, Ind. T. ,

appropriation for town-site expenses ... 259,996

town limits of small towns

259

disposal of lands in .

259

for removing intruders and settling al-

lottees

259

lawful possessors of lots may remain . 259

share of each member in tribal lands

until allotted ....

260

appraisement and allotment of lands.

717

lands reserved from allotment .

717

exclusive jurisdiction of Commission.. 718

rights of Delawares .

718

additional school lands ..

720

enrollment of citizens ..

720

establishment and support of schools

maintaining Cherokee Orphan Asylum ....... establishment of roads ..

town-site provisions issue of patents for lands allotted termination of tribal government

collection of revenue, etc...

claims against United States to be brought

in Court of Claims ...

726

726

grazing leases, etc. , permitted

727

provision as to conflicting laws

ratification by Cherokee Nation ; notifica- 727 tion

INDEX .

2065

Cherokee Nation, Ind. T. -Cont'd. status of Eastern Cherokees and others
east of the Mississippi ... Cherry, Daniel,
conveyance of real estate, Dothan, Ala. , to.

Page. 996 1491

Chesley, Charles C.,

pension increased .

1682

Chester, Jane P. (widow),

pension increased ....

1635

Chester River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 336

Cheyenne and Arapaho Agency, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian agent at

245

Cheyenne Indians, Arapaho and, appropriation for support, etc. , of.....
patents in fee simple to certain

255, 991 1009

Cheyenne River Agency, S. Dak., appropriation for Indian agent at

245, 982

proclamation restoring lands to public

domain

2035

Cheyenne River Indian Reservation,

deficiency appropriation for surveying ... 1074 Cheyenne, Wyo. ,

appropriation for public building .........

420

regular term, circuit court of appeals ..

329

Chicago and Erie Railroad Company,

may bridge Calumet River, at Hammond,

Ind .

660

Chicago and State Line Railroad Company,

may bridge Calumet River, at Cummings,

Ill...

660

Chicago, Ill.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice; salaries

143, 877

for improvement of Calumet River..... 363

for rent, temporary building

420, 1084

for rent, public offices...

1084

for new public building, post-office,

etc

420, 1084

special employees on plans; limit .... 420

for enforcing harbor regulations ... 435, 1096

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, repairs

""

care, etc. , of " Confederate Mound, au-

thorized

limit of cost increased, public building .

558
804 1204

payment of damages, explosion of artillery caisson ...
postmaster's salary fixed . assistant's ..

1452 1166 1166

Chicago River, Ill. ,

appropriation for improvement of; turn-

ing basins ..

363

Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company,

may bridge Missouri River, Kansas City,

Mo

56

Chicago, Sioux Falls and Pacific Railway

Company,

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

Oacoma, S. Dak ..

305

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park,

appropriation for establishing .

466, 1131

deficiency appropriation for establishing .. Chickasahay River, Miss. ,
appropriation for improvement of..... preliminary examination of, to be made.. Chickasaw Freedmen,

1048
355 380

rights, etc., to be determined by Court of

Claims ..

649

Chickasaw Indians (see also Choctaw and

Chickasaw Indians) ,

deposit of fund for relief of indigent

178

commission to distribute .

178

VOL XXXII , PT 2-53

Chickasaw Indians- Continued.

Page.

expenses of paying, per capita, to be from

same fund .

1058

Chickasaw Nation, Ind. T. ,

appropriation forsurvey, etc. , town sites . 259 , 996

appointment of town site commis-

sioner in case of vacancy .

259,996

town limits of small towns

259

disposal of lands in

259

for removing intruders and settling

allottees ...

259

lawful possessors of lots may remain . 259

share of each member in tribal lands

until allotted .

260

interest to be paid on national fund ..

262

national fund transferred to treasurer's

credit ....

262

deduction, aid to indigent .

262

Chicott Pass, La.,

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
appropriation for compensation .. salary increased

169,905 825

Chief of Engineers, Army,

duties of, public buildings and grounds,

D. C ..

152

Chief of Staff, Army,
appropriation for contingent expenses ... 927 supervisory powers of, over line and staff. 831

Chihuahua, Mexico,

appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Chilcoat, Joseph S.,

pension increased .

1702

Children, D. C., planfor care of delinquent, to be submitted . 978

Children's Guardians, D. C. , Board of,
appropriation for administrative expenses. 612, 978

for feeble-minded children for board, etc. , of children

613, 978 613, 978

payment to sectarian institutions ... 613 , 978

for careof children , Hart Farm School . 613, 978

deficiency appropriation for care, etc ... 119, 1044

for expenses..

562

for S. S. Parkman, reimbursing ..

562

payment to sectarian institutions ..

562

Children's Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for care of patients ...... 612 , 978 Childs, A. H.,
claim referred to Court ofClaims ; payment . 764

Chile, appropriation for minister to .. for secretary of legation

76, 807 77,808

deficiency appropriation for payment of

award to .

5

extradition treaty with ....

1850

Chillicothe, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1084

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1203

Chilocco, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 270 , 1002

China,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation for second secretary .

77,808 77, 808

for Chinese secretary

77,809

for student interpreters ; appointment . 78 , 809

for rent of legation buildings, etc

78, 810

for erection of legation buildings, Pekin . 78

for interpreters at consulates

86, 818

for marshals, consular courts in.

87,819

for expenses of prisoners ..

87,819

2066

INDEX.

Chinese Exclusion, appropriation for deficiency appropriation for for deporting to Hongkong. laws relating to, continued .. extended to island territory

Page. 450, 1112 7, 29, 555, 1036
1036 176 176

immigration from islands to mainland pro-

hibited .....

176

transit in same group of islands allowed.. 176

mainland defined ...

176

laborers, etc., for expositions admitted... 177 registration required in insular territory .. 177

duties of Treasury officials transferred to

immigration officers

828

jurisdiction over, transferred to Depart-

ment of Commerce and Labor ..

828

not affected by new immigration law

1221

Chinese Plague,

appropriation for preventing epidemic. 450, 1113 Chinese Relief Expedition,

badges adopted for service in, may be worn at ceremonial occasions .... 1229

Chippewa Falls, Wis.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208

Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior,

appropriation for support, etc. , of..

255, 991

allotment to, on Lac Courte Oreille Reser-

vation, Wis .

795

on Lac du Flambeau Reservation , Wis.. 795

Chippewa Indians of Minnesota, appropriation for advance interest
for civilization , etc. for stumpage

249, 985 249,986
268

for paying for improvements, Mille Lac

Reservation .

268

for selling, etc., pine timber.

986

ceded lands to be surveyed .

400

separated into pine and agricultural lands 400

sale of timber on pine lands .

lease of sawmill sites...

401

forestry lands reserved on certain reserva-

tions .

402

selection by forester of Agricultural De-

partment ...

402

lands reserved as Indian land ..

402

regulations for cutting, removal, etc. , of

timber .

402

upon removal of timber, lands to be classed

as agricultural

403

homestead entries on agricultural lands

403

officials to supervise cutting, etc ..........

404

constructing logging facilities permitted

404

payment of expenses ..

404

deposit of proceeds from sales of timber

404

provision for sale of dead timber repealed . 404

allotment to be completed before opening

to settlement

404

Chippewa Indians of the Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 248, 985

Chippewa River, Wis.,

deficiency appropriation for improving ... 1046 provision for improvement of, repealed ....... 374

Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation establishing

2019

Chisham, James M.,

payment to

1505

Chittum, Elbert,

pension increased ..

1656

Chitwood, William J.,

pension increased .

1679

Choate, George W.,

pension ..

1640

Choctaw and Chickasaw Citizenship Court,

Page.

proceedings in, to determine citizenship .. 647

created, jurisdiction; composition , etc .... 648

appropriation for expenses .

648,995

transfer of papers and causes

995

compensation of attorneys..

995

existence extended to December 31 , 1904 . 996

Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians,

additional agreement for allotment of

lands, etc., ratified ....

641

appraisement and allotment .

642

sales of lands not reserved ..

642

exclusive jurisdiction of commission . lands reserved from allotment

enrollment of citizens and freedmen

proceedings in citizenship court .

647

creation and powers of court ..

648

appropriation for expenses

648

rights of Chickasaw freedmen to be deter-

mined by Court of Claims .

649

enrollment and allotment to Mississippi

Choctaws

651

reservations, etc. , of town sites

652

issue of bonds for public improvements ..

sale of coal and asphalt deposits

relinquishment of sulphur springs tracts..

miscellaneous provisions ..

appropriation for cash payment per capita . 657

ratification by Indians ..

657

Choctaw Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 248, 985

deposit of fund for relief of indigent ............. 177

commission to distribute ...

177

Choctaw Nation, Ind. T. ,

appropriation for town-site expenses ... 259,996

appointment of town - site commis-

sioner in case of vacancy

259,996

town limits of small towns

259

disposal of lands in .......

259

for removing intruders and settling allot-

tees .

259

lawful possessors of lots may remain.. 259

share of each member in tribal lands

until allotted ...............

260

Choctaw Point, Ala.,

right of way, etc. , granted Mobile, Jackson and Kansas City Railroad Company . 119

Choctawhatchee River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of.

353

bridge authorized across, at Martin Ferry,

Ala ......

1225

Cholera,

appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450 , 1112

Choptank River, Md., appropriation for improvement of........ 336

Chrissinger, George,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ....

211

Christian Church, Henderson, Ky.,

payment to

1609

Christian, John J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 216

Christian, William,

pension increased .

1548

Christiania, Norway,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

Christianson, Christian,

pension increased.

1414

Christie, Albion M.,

payment to

1493

Christophers, Thomas Vermilyea Jarvis,

payment of French spoliation claim to

executor of....

218

INDEX .

2067

Church, Edward,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

227

Church, Joseph,

pension increased .

1255

City Solicitor, D. C., name changed to corporation counsel ....
City Solicitor's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries..
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico,

Page. 537
592

Church, William L., pension increased .

1500

appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

82,814 86, 818

Churchill, Lucy T. (widow) ,

Ciudad Porfirio Diaz, Mexico,

pension increased .

1734 appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Churchill, Nelson,

for clerk hire

86, 818

pension increased .

1478 Civil Engineers, Navy,

Cienfuegos, Cuba,

appointment of additional, authorized .... 671

appropriation for consul at

199, 814 ! and assistants authorized...

1197

for clerk hire ...

818 rank and pay of assistants; promotion .... 1197

deficiency appropriation for clerk hire ... 553 Civil Engineers, Navy, Assistant,

" Cienfuegos," Steamer,

pay established ..

1197

refunded additional tonnage taxes

771 Ciril Pension Roll,

Cigar Dealers, D. C. , . license tax on

prohibited, postal service 628 Civil Rights,

118, 1176

Cigars, deficiency appropriation for rebate of internal-revenue tax on ..

Cigars and Cigarettes,

tax on, modified .

97

Cilley, Emma Sophia Harper ( widow) ,

pension increased .

1347

Cincinnati, Ohio, appropriation for assistant office; salaries .
Circuit Court of Appeals,

treasurer's 143, 878

appropriation for expenses of judges ... 476 , 1141

for clerks

169,905

for messenger, eighth circuit .

169,905

for law books ; marking required ..

169

additional term, fifth circuit, Atlanta, Ga . 548

Fort Worth, Tex

756

Montgomery, Ala

784

eighth circuit, additional terms .

329

pending anti-trust cases may be appealed

to Supreme Court ...

823

Circuit Courts,

appropriation for circuit judges ....

169, 905

for clerks, circuit courts of appeal .... 169 , 905

deficiency appropriation for salary addi-

tional judge second circuit ....

578

additional judge authorized , second cir-

cuit ...

106

for eighth circuit

791

anti-trust, etc. , cases to be given prefer-

ence in

823

composition of court .

823

concurrent jurisdiction with district courts

in immigration causes .

1220

summary proceedings in cases violating

interstate-commerce regulations, etc. 848

Circuit Judges, appropriation for salaries......

169,905

deficiency appropriation for additional

judge, eighth circuit..

1064

for increase in salaries ..

1064

salaries increased ......

825

Circuses, D. C.,

license tax on owners of....

625

Citizens' Bridge Company,

time extended for bridging Mississippi

River, at Burlington, Iowa ...

74

Citizens' Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ..

1079

statement of, Philippine Islands .................

692

Civil Service,

appropriations not available for permanently incapacitated persons .. 171,906

temporary.clerks, war of Spain work, trans-

ferred to classified .

171

Civil Service Commission,

appropriation for Commissioners, secre-

tary, etc ...

132, 866

for traveling, etc., expenses .

132, 866

for contingent expenses . for rent.

162, 897 162 , 897

for printing and binding

480, 1145

deficiency appropriation for traveling, etc. ,

expenses ...

31, 285

for printing and binding .

1069

to receive one copy Congressional Record . 786

Claiborne, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 336

Claim Agents, D. C.,

license tax on ..

628

Claims,

appropriation for, of Confederate soldiers,

property taken in violation of sur-

render at Appomattox .

43

for paying, allowed by Court of Claims

for stores, etc ....

207

for paying French spoliation ..

217

for paying, of churches, etc.

234

for settling State, etc

235

for miscellaneous .

236

for defending suits in.

473, 1139

for defense, Spanish Claims Commis-

sion

473, 1139

for collection of.

474, 1140

for defense, Indian depredation .. 474, 1140

for paying Spanish war...

486

for Fourth of July

629

for record of private, Senate.

857

for list of private, House of Representa-

tives ..

858

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ments Court of Claims

27,583, 1070

for paying Indian depredation .... 27 , 584, 1070

for paying, certified by accounting offi-

cers .

28, 585, 1072

for award Spanish Claims Commission .. 1069

for index of private, Senate ..

580

House of Representatives ..

582

for damages by collision of United States

Citizenship, status of inhabitants of the Philippines... 692

steamers, referred to court of admi-

ralty .

242

City Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio,

payment of decrees ..

242

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

referred to Court of Claims .

243

tlement ..

1079, 1080 Claims, Court of (see Court of Claims) .

2068

INDEX.

Clairton Station, Pa.,

Page. I Clearwater Valley Railroad Company,

Page.

bridge authorized across Monongahela

time extended for building road, Nez

River at..

58

Percs Indian Reservation ...

198

Clallam County, Wash.,

Cleaves, Frank,

land granted to, for county purposes ............. 770 pension increased .

1689

"Clarissa," Schooner, payment of French spoliation claim on account of..
Clark, Agnes ( widow) , pension increased ..
Clark, Ellen J. (widow) , pension increased ..
Clark, Francis or Jenny, fee-simple title to lands in Oklahoma to heirs of, in lieu of trust patents ....

230 1405 1380
1606

Cleek, Peter C.,

pension increased .

1304

Clement, James M.,

pension increased ..

1627

Clements, Kate H. (widow),

pension increased .

1326

Clerk ofthe House of Representatives, appropriation for, clerks, etc.

124, 858

for list of private claims, 52d-57th Con-

gresses ...

858

Clark, Frank J. , pension increased .

deficiency appropriation for superintend-

1299

ent, document room ..

1068

Clark, Frederick O., pension increased ..
Clark, Huldah A. (widow),
pension ... Clark, J. D.,
payment to .

1405 1506 487

Clerks and Messengers, Army,

appropriation for, at headquarters ..... 509 , 930 Clerks and Messengers to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives..

125, 859

for, Senate

121 , 855

Clark, Julius W., pension increased ..
Clark, Martha (widow), pension increased ..

| Clerks, Temporary,

1325 on war with Spain work, transferred to

classified service .....

171

1431 Clerks to Committees,

Clark, Mary, fee-simple title to lands in Oklahoma to heirs of, in lieu of trust patent ..... 1606

Clark, Mary J. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1347

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives, annual

125,859

session ..

126, 859

for, Senate

121 , 855

Clerks to Senators,

Clark, Mrs. S. , payment to..

appropriation for 488 deficiency appropriation for

123,856 26, 1067

Clark, Nimrod F. , pension increased .
Clark, Robert, pension increased .

Clerks, United States Courts,

1627 appropriation for fees ; semiannual re-

turns

475, 1141

1559 deficiency appropriation for fees

32,

Clark, Robert M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

207

587, 590, 1065, 1075, 1077

attorneys' fees for admission to practice.. 476

emoluments, designated ..

476

Clark, Susan E. (mother), pension ..

accounts, to be restated ; payment of bal-

1349

ance .

849

Clark, Thomas C., payment of Court of Claims judgment to administratrix of ..........
Clark, Thomas E. , pension .
Clark, W. H., payment to ..
Clark, William, pension increased .
Clark, William F., lineal rank in cavalry corrected ...................
Clarke, James, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of
Clarke, John C., pension ..
Clarke, Katharine W. (widow), pension increased .

211 1264 488 1506 805
227 1515 1524

Cleveland, Ohio,

appropriation for public building ... 420, 1084

for rent of temporary buildings .

420, 1084

for marine hospital boiler plant ..

423

for improvement of harbor ..... 342, 462, 1126

for improvement of entrance ; contracts

for breakwaters .

342

deficiency appropriation for rent of build-

ings, etc.

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land .

313

Cleveland Rolling Mill Company, claim referred to Courtof Claims; payment. 764

Cleveland, W. C.,.

payment to ..

490

Clevenger, Henry,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

217

Clarke, Matilda C. (widow),

pension ..

1440

Clarke, Post and Martin,

claim referred to Court of Claims; payment 764

Classification Division, Postal Service,

Clifford, Thomas and John,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner....

Clift, Inez L. (widow),

pension increased

1624

appropriation for superintendent, etc ... 165, 901

for per diem, etc., special agents .... 165, 901

Classified Civil Service,

transfer of war with Spain employees to.. 171

appropriations made available ..

171

Clifton, James A., pension ...
Clinch River, Tenn. , appropriation for improvement of.. bridge authorized across, at Dossett

1507
358 793

Claybourn James,

Clinton River, Mich.,

pension increased .. Cleage, David,

1634 appropriation for improvement of..................... 361 66 'Clio," Brig,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

administrators of

214

count of..

220

INDEX .

2069

Closser, Charlotte J., pension ..
Clothing and Small Stores Fund, Navy, appropriation for increase to..

Page. 1674
1191

Clothing, Army, appropriation for...............

517,939

for indemnity for, destroyed for sanitary

reasons

517,939

deficiency appropriation for

29

Clough, Joseph M.,

pension increased ..

1308

Clover, Richardson,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

568

Club Creek, Ga., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Cluxton, Jessie V. (daughter), pension .
Coach Lines, D. C. , license tax on operators of..

1718 624

Coal,

appropriation for expenses of Anthracite,

Strike Commission ..

758

rebate of duty on all, for one year

773

no duty to be imposed on anthracite ... 773

Coal Deposits, Ind. T.,

sale of, Choctaw and Chickasaw lands ........... 653

Coal Lands, Philippines,

regulations for entries of..

704

limit and prohibitions ..

705

Coal Mines in Territories,

preventing accumulation of dust, etc ..... 632

Coal, Navy,

appropriation for, and transportation .. 667 , 1182

for depots for..

668

Coast and Geodetic Survey,
appropriation for field expenses . for Pacific coast, etc...

436, 1098 436, 1098

for Coast Pilot .....

436, 1098

for magnetic observations, etc

437, 1098

points to States surveys

437, 1098

for miscellaneous ..

437, 1098

for delegate, International Geodetic As-

sociation ...

437, 1099

for tidal indicator, Maritime Exchange,

New York

1099

for vessels, repair, etc. for new steamer, etc for vessels, officers, and men .
for superintendent, assistants, etc. for office force . for office expenses
for printing and binding

437, 1099 1099
437, 1099 437, 1099 438, 1099 439, 1100 480, 1145

deficiency appropriation for steamer " Pat-

terson "

9

for general expenses

28

for electrotype plant .

558

for party expenses .

588

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor..

826

Coast Pilot, appropriation for compiling .
Coasters Harbor Island, R. I.,

436, 1098

appropriation for naval apprentice training

station

664, 1178

for Naval War College

665, 1179

for public works, training station 677, 1188

for public works, War College

677

deficiency appropriation for naval training

station .

1051

Coates, John H. ,

pension increased.

1312

Coates, Thomas H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

213

Coaticook, Quebec, appropriation for consul at

Page. 84, 816

Cobb, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230

Cobb, Henry Ives, deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1053

Cobb, Matthew,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

.ministrator of ...

219, 224

Cobb, W. W.,

payment to administrator of....

1606

Coble, Isaac,

payment to

489

Coburg, Germany, appropriation for consul-general at.. for clerk hire .

81, 813 86, 818

Cocheco River, N. H.,

appropriation for improvement of......

348

Cockerille, Paul, deficiency appropriation for services ............. 580
Coeur d'Alene Indians, appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 249, 986

Cofer, Lemuel,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .

211

Coffin, David, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of
Coffin, Fred F. B., pension increased..
Coffin, Samuel, payment of French spoliation claim to administrators of
Coffman, James D. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ...
Cogswell, Leander W., pension increased ..
Cohasset, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor.
Cohn, Magnus J., pension increased ..

232 1266
226
207 1689 332 1554

Coinage, Philippines (see also Philippine

Coinage) ,

establishment of mint authorized .

710

subsidiary silver coins authorized ; bullion

purchases .

710

minor coins authorized ; metal purchases . 710

arrangements with United States mints au-

thorized

710

devices, etc. , to express sovereignty of

United States ..

711

Coins,

appropriation for transporting silver .. 447, 1109

for transporting minor

447, 1109

for recoining gold ..

447, 1109

deficiency appropriation for recoinage of

gold

7, 1025

for transporting silver.

555, 1035

limitation on coinage of subsidiary silver,

removed

1109

Coins, etc.,

punishmentforuse of advertisements simu-

lating United States or foreign ..... 1223 illustrations in numismatic books, etc. ,

permitted

1224

Coit, Annie W. (widow),

pension increased ..

1641

Colby, Charles W. ,

pension increased ..

1654

Cole, John W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

217

2070

INDEX .

Cole, Martin G.,

Page. Colorado,

Page.

pension increased.
Cole, Stephen G., pension increased .

1740 | 1670

appropriation for incidental expenses In-

dian service in .....

257,993

for surveyor-general , clerks, etc.

162,898

Colehour, C. W. , payment to

for surveying, etc. , boundary, Oklahoma,

1713

New Mexico, and, continued

1117

Coles, Charles F. , pension increased .
Coljar, Bank of, refund of tax penalty.

deficiency appropriation for resurvey of

1509

boundary, New Mexico, Oklahoma,

and .

574

1653 proclamation changing boundaries of

Collahan, John C.,

White River Forest Reserve .......

2008

pension increased.... Collateral Descent, D. C. ,

1745

establishing San Isabel Forest Re-

serve

1988

no distinction between whole and half

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

blood as to personalty

530

gation

388

Collateral Securities,

Colorado Cooperative Company,

taxes on, remitted ..

407 time extended for final proof of lands en-

Collector of Taxes, D. C.,

tered by

907

duties, sales of real estate for arrears of

Colorado Judicial District,

taxes

terms of court, Denver .

833

Collectors of Customs,

Pueblo..

833

Montrose

833

execution of Chinese exclusion transferred

court, etc. , transferred from Del Norte to

from, to Department of Commerce

Montrose

833

officers ..

828

Colorado River, Ariz. and Cal.,

Collector's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries ..

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376 592, 958 Colorado River, Nev.,

for preparing tax-sale certificates ; extra

preliminary examination of, to be made;

pay to clerks .

592

El Dorado Canyon to Rioville ....... 380

deficiency appropriation for preparing taxsale certificates .

93 Colorado Springs, Colo., construction of public building authorized

Collier, Ann E. (widow) , pension increased......
Collier, John P., pension increased......
Collier, Winifred, payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

! 1392

at.. appropriation for

317 427, 1084

limit of cost increased, public building . 1203

1428 land granted to , for water supply.

184

Colored Women and Children, D. C., National

212

Association for Relief of Destitute,

appropriation for maintenance..

613, 979

Colliers, Naral, appropriation for pay, etc. , crew ..
Collingwood, Canada, appropriation for consul at
Collins, John,

officers

and 664, 1178
83, 815

Columbia Hospital for Women, D. C. , appropriation for care of patients
Columbia Institution for Deafand Dumb,
appropriation for current expenses ...... for repairs.. for instruction, District pupils .

612, 978
457, 1120 457, 1121 608,971

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

deficiency appropriation for support .... 19, 1055

ministrator of Collins, H. E. , and Company,
claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment.

220 Columbia, Mo. , 764 purchase of site for public building at, au- thorized 318

Collins, Levi H.,

pension increased .

1456

Collins, Theodore F.,

pension increased.

1351

Collins, Thomas L.,

pension increased .

1568

Colman, Charles D. ,

claim of widow for refund of moneys, re-

ferred to Court of Claims ..

243

Cologne, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .....

82, 814 86, 818

Colombia,

appropriation for

429

construction authorized of public building

at ...

1206

deficiency appropriation for

1038

provision for public building, omnibus act,

transposed ...

745

Columbia River, Oreg., appropriation for lighting .

433 , 1094

Columbia River, Oreg, and Wash.,

appropriation for gauging

369

for improvement of, below Portland . 369

at mouth; contracts .

369, 1127

at The Cascades

369

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

of upper

370

for secretary of legation and consul-

general

77,808 1

between Dalles Rapids and Celilo Falls ;

contracts ..

370

control of territory, etc. , for Isthmian

canal to be acquired from .

481

rights to be ceded ....

481

from Vancouver to mouth of Willa-

mette .....

370

29

deficiency appropriation for improving...

appropriation for

482 preliminary examination of, to be made,

use of Panama Canal and harbors guaran-

teed to

483

between Vancouver and the Willa-

mette ..

383

Colon, Colombia, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

Columbia River, Wash.,

82, 814 86, 818

bridge authorized across, Vancouver,

Wash ..

277

INDEX .

2071

" Columbia," Ship,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

218

"Columbia," U. S. Navy,

claim for damages by, referred to court of

admiralty ...

242

Columbus, Eufaula and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Chattahoochee River, Colum-

bus, Ga ...

192

Columbus, Ga.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

bridge authorized across Chattahoochee River between Eufaula, Ala. , and .. 192

Columbus, Ohio,

change of military post at, authorized ........ 515

lands dedicated to city

1230

plans authorized for new public building . 326

Colville Agency, Wash. ,
appropriation for Indian agent at for support, etc. , of Indians of.

245,982 258,994

Colville Indian Reservation, Wash.,

appropriation for removing Wenatchi In-

dians to...

260

homestead entries permitted on, opened

to settlement .

803

Comanche Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...........

991

fee simple patents to certain .

1008

Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache Indians,

lands in Oklahoma ceded by, open to town-

site commutations

63

proclamation opening to entry, lands in

Oklahoma ceded by ..

1975

Comer, Henry S.,

pension increased .

1249

Comins, Ann (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1464

Commanding General ofthe Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses of

office

507, 927

Commerce and Labor, Department of (see De-

partment of Commerce and Labor) . Commerce and Navigation,

authority given to Philippine government

over

695

laws applied to trade with Philippines .

711

officer or attorney who may swear to own-

ership of vessels for registry ....... 398

statistics of trade with noncontiguous ter-

ritory required .......

172

Commerce, Foreign and Domestic,

duty of Department of Commerce and La-

bor as to ...

826

Commerce, Interstate and Foreign,

investigation of corporations engaged in.. 828

Commercial Bureau of American Republics,

appropriation for

88,812

Commercial Mutual Insurance Company, New

York,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1079

Commercial Relations 1901,

ordered printed ...

1766

Commissary-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

150, 884

Commission Merchants, D. C.,

license tax on

623

Commissioner- General of Immigration (see Immigration, Commissioner- General of) .

Commissioner of Labor,

Page.

appropriation for, clerks, etc

168,904

Commissioners, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees ..

476, 1141

deficiency appropriation for fees ..

32 ,

588, 590, 1075

Common Carriers,

corporation, liable for violating interstate-

commerce regulations ..

847

penalty for not filing, observing, etc. , tar-

iffs

847

for giving rebates, etc ..

847

liability for acts of agent, etc ..

848

excepted from investigation, etc. , by Department of Commerce and Labor.. 828

requirements for automatic couplers and

brakes extended ..

943

Commutation of Rations,
appropriation for, Army for, prisoners of war, etc ..
Compton Creek, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of Compton, Elvira C. (widow) ,
pension increased..

513, 935 473, 1138
350
1681

Compton, Isabella (widow),

pension .

1288

Compton, John,

pension increased .

1541

Comptroller of the Currency,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc ... 138 , 872

for superintendent, national currency,

clerks, etc ....

138,872

for special examinations, etc ..

138, 872

authorized to designate cities having 25,000

population as reserve cities ; appli-

cation ..

1223

may furtherextend national-bank charters . 102

report of expenses, liquidation of failed

banks ...

138

to furnish complete list of employees an-

nually

138

Comptroller of the Treasury,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 135, 870 for N. H. Thompson, services .... ... 136

Comstock, Morris M.,

pension increased.

1547

Concerts, etc., D. C.,

license tax on conductors of .

625

Concessions, Interstate Commerce,

penalty for giving

847

Concessions, Philippines,

may be granted, for public utility and serv-,

ice; conditions ..

709

" Concord," Ship, payment of French spoliation claim on ac- count of.. 599

Condemnation of Land, D. C.,

reasonable time allowed to abandon pro-

ceedings for .....

530

Condemned Cannon,

donated for statue to General Sewell

745

General Macomb

750

General Devens

751

Condon, Frederick A.,

pension increased .

1409

Conduits, D. C. , Underground, provision for putting telephone wires in.. 393
Conecuh River, Ala.,

bridge authorized across, at McGowans

Ferry.

852

Conecuh River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of ........ 353

Conewego Iron Company,

payment to..

489

2072

INDEX .

Confectionery Establishments, D. C. , license tax on
Confederate Armies, Union and, complete roster of, to be compiled ...
Confederate Mound, Oak Woods Cemetery, Chicago, Ill.,
contract for improvement and care of, authorized

Page. 628 884
804

Confederate Reunion,

loan of tents for, Dallas, Tex

737

Confederate Soldiers,

property taken in violation of Appomattox

surrender to be paid for...

43

deficiency appropriation for claims for

property taken from

1048

Congaree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

352

Columbia to Granby ...........

463

Congress,

appropriation for printing and binding. 479, 1145

deficiency appropriation for printing and

binding .

27, 31 , 285, 1069

adjournment of, authorized, 1902

1772

holiday recess for 1901-1902, ordered ..

1763

for 1902-1903 ..

1773

invitation to attend dedication of St. Louis

Fair accepted..

1774

power to annul laws of Philippine Govern-

ment reserved .

712

printing franks, seed distribution, charged

to printing allotment ....

741

sympathy of, extended to Mrs. Ida S.

McKinley ..

1763

thanks of, presented to Hon . John Hay for memorial address of the late

President McKinley

1771

Congresses of Navigation,

appropriation for support, etc. , Interna-

tional Commission ..

485

Congressional Debates,

deficiency appropriation for manuscript

index of..

580

Congressional Directory,

appropriation for compiling

..... 124, 858

deficiency appropriation for compiling,

Continental to Fifty-seventh Con-

gress ..

1068

delivered to Senators and Representatives

to be bound in cloth

583

Congressional Directory, Biographical,

ordered printed ...

1773

Congressional Employees,

to be paid December, 1901, salaries, Decem-

ber 18 .

734

December, 1902, salaries, December 18 .. 1229

Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

gress ) .

Congressional Record,

appropriation for reporting debates, House

of Representatives ..

127,861

for reporting proceedings, Senate

124, 857

for printing and binding

479, 1145

Congressional allotment doubled ..

786

copies to be furnished Department of Labor

and Civil Service Commission

786

Congressional Reference Library, appropriation for custodian, etc
Conlon, Michael (father) , pension

assistants , 130, 864
1650

Conneaut, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ;

contracts..

341, 1126

for light-house.

431

Connecticut,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for raising volun-

teers ..

1078

granted Fort Griswold tract asa public park 306

Connecticut Avenue Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for constructing; cost; con-

tracts .

964

Connecticut River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Hartford ..

349

for lighting.

433, 1094

bridge authorized across, at Hartford , Conn . 836

Connecticut River, Conn. and Mass.,

appropriation for survey of, etc. , between

Hartford and Holyoke, by engineer

board ....

348

Connell, Hattie (widow),

pension increased..

1680

Connell, Maurice,

to be enlisted as sergeant, Signal Corps, and

retired ...

1455

Connell, Peter,

charge of desertion removed .

1370

Connit, Susan F. (widow),

pension increased .

1244

Connolly, Michael,

deficiency appropriation for damages ..... 1053 Conover, George W.,

fee-simple patent to ..

1008

Conrad, Crisman,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

217

Conrad, James M. ,

pension increased .

1486

Conroy, Catherine (widow) ,

pension .

1270

Constantinople,

appropriation for consul-general at . for clerk hire ....

76, 813 86,818

for steam launch, legation .

78,809

Constitution of the United States,

not applicable to Philippine Islands ...... 692 Consular Clerks,

appropriation for Consular, etc., Reports,

85,817

appropriation for preparation, etc .. allowance for employees
cablegrams and extra expenses

87,812 88,812 88,812

purchase of books, maps, etc

88,813

equivalents in measures, etc. , to be

expressed .

88,813

edition limited

88,813

deficiency appropriation for publication . 6, 1033 for chief of Bureau, etc. , to prepare,

for Department of Commerce and

Labor ....

1082

officer to prepare instructions for, and edit. 830 Consular Officers,

appropriation for payment to heirs of ... 79,811

for bringing home remains of, dying

abroad..

79, 811

deficiency appropriation for services to

American vessels, etc.

1074

duties of, in respect of patent applications . 1226 to collect statistics, etc. , for Department of
Commerce and Labor; reports ..... 827

to execute bond, if accepting administra-

tion, etc. , from foreign state ..

546

suit on, in case of breach of trust

546

failure to deliver property, etc. , deemed

embezzlement ..

547

punishment.

547

Consular Officers not Citizens,

to be paid from salary of office to which

attached

86,818

INDEX .

2073

Consular Service,

Page.

appropriation for repairs to buildings ... 80 , 812

for salaries . for clerks at consulates .

81, 813 86, 818

for clerks at consulates not specified .. 86 , 818

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses for salaries .

6, 32 , 553, 587 , 590, 1033, 1074 32, 553, 587, 590, 1074

Contract Labor, Alien, importation of, unlawful; penalty .

Page. 1214

Contract-Labor Laws, Alien, appropriation for enforcing .

450, 1112

deficiency appropriation for enforcing ....

7

Contract Surgeons, Army,
appropriation for transfers of pay, on insular duty .

512, 933 933

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing. 13

Consulates, appropriation for contingent expenses ... 88, 819
deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses .... 6, 32, 553, 587 , 590, 1033, 1074

invoices filed more than five years to be

1

destroyed

854

Consuls, appropriation for salaries .......

81 , 813

Consuls- General, appropriation for salaries.......

81 , 813

Contagious Diseases, D. C., appropriation for preventing spread of.. 608 , 973

deficiency appropriation for preventing
spread of.. Contagious Diseases of Animals,
appropriation for eradicating . powers of Secretary of Treasury to sup-

1044 1165

press, transferred to Secretary of

791

Agriculture

792

force of regulations as to transportation

effect of inspector's certificate of freedom

from disease..

792

authority to make regulations to prevent introduction and spread of disease . 792

to seize and dispose of hay, animal prod-

ucts, etc. , in transit .

792

punishment for violating regulations, etc. 792

Contractors, D. C. , Building, etc.,

license tax on .

628

Contracts, joinder

D. C., of torts

with,

in

a declaration ....

543

Contzen, Philip, deficiency appropriation for services ... 572, 573

Conventions (see also Treaties ) , additional act, international protection of
industrial property .. international, adapting principles of Ge-
nevaconventiontomaritimewarfare .
for pacific settlement of disputes ... governing usages of war on land money-order, with Bolivia ..
with Canada with Greece.. parcels-post, with Bolivia with New Zealand .. trade-marks with Guatemala

1936
1827 1779 1803 1868 1875 1924 1948 1843 1866

with Great Britain for settling Alaskan

boundary

1959

supplemental, as to tenure of property . 1914

with Guatemala, as to tenure of property . 1944

Conveyances, D. C.,

533

modifications of forms, etc

Conveyances, Indian Territory,

841

provisions for recording..

Contal, Benjamin,

1619

pension increased ..

Conter, John,

1453

pension Continental Fire Insurance Company, etc. ,

deficiency appropriation for refunding du-

plicate taxes

29, 588, 1076

Contingent Beneficial Interests,

refund of tax on, not vested before July 1,

1902 ...

406

Contingent Expenses, appropriation for foreign missions

78, 809

for consulates ..
for Senate ... for House of Representatives

88,819 123, 856 128, 861

for Public Printer

128, 862

for Library of Congress for Executive Office

131, 865 132, 866

for Department of State .

133, 867

for Treasury Department..

141 , 875

151,885

for War Department..

for Public Buildings and Grounds, Wash-

ington, D. C .... for Navy Department . for Census Office ....

152, 886 156, 890
896

for Interior Department for Civil Service Commission .

161 , 897 161 , 897

for Post-Office Department. for Department of Justice .
for Department of Labor . for Indian Service

166, 902 168,903 169,905 247, 984

for Weather Bureau

287, 1148

for Department of Agriculture ..

301 , 1163

for Independent Treasury . for land offices

447, 1109 451 , 1114

507, 927

for Army for District of Columbia .

595, 960

limit on use of appropriations for, Senate

and House of Representatives .

26

Conavdimcitsss, ion of alien , sentenced for crime of

moral turpitude, excluded

1214

Convicts, D. C., appropriation for support, etc
admission of evidence by; credibility

610, 975 540

Conway and Seashore Railroad Company, may bridgeWaccamawRiver, Conway, S.C. 387

Cobnrwiadyg,eSa.utCh.o, rized across Waccamaw River
at
Cook, Delitha A. (widow) , pension increased ...
Cook, John, pension increased ..
Cook, Julia A. ( widow) , pension increased .
Cook, Lavinia ( widow), pension ..........
Copoka,ymWielnltiaomf, French spoliation claim to administrator of.......

387 1636 1522 1618 1697
232

Cook, William ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .....

213

Copoak,ymZeebnitdeeo,f French spoliation claim to administrator of.....
Cooke, Charles A. , pension increased..
Cool, Hugh, pension increased .
Coolen, John,
pension . Cooley, James,
pension increased ..
Cooper, Benjamin, pension increased ..

232 1520 1712 1390 1376 1598

2074

INDEX.

ZE 66 EDZ 6 NA

Cooper, Elvira M. (widow), pension increased ..........

Page. 1625

Coos Bay and Harbor, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of en-

trance

347

Coos River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of

369

Coosa River, Ga. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of

353

surveys authorized

353

Coosawattee River, Ga., appropriation for improvement of..
Copenhagen, Denmark, appropriation for consul at

353 83, 815

Copley, John W.,

pension increased ..

1722

Coppinger, Rebecca (widow) ,

pension

1389

Copyright Office, appropriation for register, clerks, etc ... 130, 864

Coquille River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of

269

Corbett, John (son),

pension

1640

Corbett, Shadrack I. ,

pension

1371

Corbitt, Martin, and Whitcomb Henley,

appropriation for payment to .

268

Cordingly, Thomas,

granted honorable discharge ....

1615

Cordis, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Core, Elias R., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 209

Core, John M.,

pension

1267

Corey, John Y. ,

pension

1314

Cork, Ireland, appropriation for consul at

83,815

" Cornelia, " Sloop,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

233

Cornell, E. D. ,
payment to Corning, N. Y.,
deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase of public building site authorized

491
1039 1208

Cornish, Martha A. (widow), pension
Cornman, Benjamin F., pension increased ..
Cornwall, Canada, appropriation for consul at

1472 1673 84, 816

Coroner, D. C., appropriation for

593, 958

to be appointed by Commissioners .

527

execution of writs in case of death, etc. , of

marshal or

541

taking possession of goods under replevin;

proceedings for return

544

Coroner's Office, D. C.,
appropriation for coroner . for expenses ..

593 , 958 595,961

deficiency appropriation for deputy ... 560 , 1042

Corporation Counsel, D. C.,

attorney for District to be known as

537

Corporation Counsel's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...

958

Corporations,

Page.

bankruptcy of, no release of liability of

officers .

797

investigation, etc. , of, engaged in inter-

state and foreign commerce..........

828

Corporations, Alaska,

organization of private, authorized ; pur-

poses

947

articles of incorporation to be filed; con-

tents ..

947

effect of certified copy of articles .

947

powers conferred by charter; real estate

holdings

947

board of directors; powers, elections,

meetings, etc ..

948

stock, subscriptions, assessments, votes, etc. 949

dividends must be from net profits ..

949

liability of directors for illegally disposing,

etc. , of stock .

949

consideration for stock; liability for

amounts unpaid

950

liability of executors, trustees, etc

950

by-laws, offices, etc.; action to increase or

diminish capital stock...

950

amendments to charter; lists of officers .. 951

dissolution proceedings

951

annual statements required from officers . 952

Corporations, Bureau of, Department of Commerce and Labor,

deficiency appropriation for Commis-

sioner, assistant, etc

1081

for expenses

1081

for special agents, pay and expenses

1081

established ; Commissioner, deputy, etc

to investigate, etc., corporations in interstate and foreign commerce

common carriers excepted ...

powers to obtain testimony, evidence, etc. , as to corporations ..
to compile, publish, etc. , information as to insurance corporations ...

Corporations, Commissioner of, appointment, salary, etc authority of, as to corporations

deficiency appropriation for assistant,

clerks, etc

1081

Z2 8 12 88888 # # 8EE 8

Corporations, Common Carrier,

liable for violating interstate commerce

regulations ..

Corporations, D. C. ,

charter granted Association of Military

Surgeons of the United States

784

General Education Board ...

768

Masonic Mutual Relief Association, char-

ter modified ....

923

National Florence Crittenton Mission,

charter amended

824

personal tax on; exemptions

619

if over 50 per cent alien ownership, not

permitted to own real estate .

530

officers who may sign deeds ...

531

exception as to dealing in real estate

533

liability for not making annual reports ... 533

responsibility for loans to stockholders . 533

provision for appeal from decision in forfeiture proceedings repealed ................... 534

injunctions against foreign, for noncom-

pliance with law..

534

Corporations, Philippines,

conditions imposed on, granted franchises. 709

use of slave labor prohibited

709

real estate holdings, etc. , of, restricted ....... 709

interest in more than one mining or agri-

cultural, unlawful

709

INDEX .

2075

Corpus Christi and Padre Island Harbor Company,
time extended to complete harbor ..................... Corpus Christi Channel, Tex.,
time extended for bridge across ......
Corson, Alphonso, payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ........

Page. 341 661
211

Cory, Anna L. (widow),

pension increased ..

1381

Cosens, Dollie (daughter) ,

pension ...

1577

Cosier, Dennis,

pension increased .

1628

Cossey, Herbert, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 213

Costa Rica,

control of territory for Isthmian canal to

be acquired by treaty from ...

482

use of Nicaragua Canal and harbors guar-

anteed to

483

Costa Rica and Salvador, Nicaragua, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation

76, 807 77,808

Cotter, Annie (widow),

pension increased .......

1423

Cotton-Boll Weevil,

deficiency appropriation for investiga-

tions, etc.

1062

Cotton Production,

annual publication of statistics during sea-

son ..

53

3333

Couch, Martha A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1268

Couch, Mary C. (widow),

pension

1695

Council Bluffs, Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

bridge authorized across Missouri River,

Omaha, Nebr. , to

204

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land ...

1204

Counterfeiting,

punishment for use of advertisements, etc. ,

simulating United States or foreign

coins

1223

Counterfeiting and other Crimes,

appropriation for suppressing .

449, 1111

deficiency appropriation for suppressing .. 585

County Roads, D. U.,

appropriation for constructing .

597,962

for repairs....

598, 964

Couplers, Car, requirements of automatic, extended..... 943

Court-House, D. C., appropriation for care, etc. for repairs

610, 976 1139

Court of Appeals, D. C. ,

appropriation for justices, clerk, etc .... 170 , 905

for reporter; price of reports

170, 905

for reports of opinions

974

deficiency appropriation for increase in

salaries ..

1065

crier and messenger authorized .

528

permanent allowance to reporter repealed ;

payment for reports

609

salaries of justices increased

825

Court of Arbitration, Permanent,

appropriation for share of international

bureau...

812

organization of international.

1789

Court of Claims, appropriation for judges, clerks, etc ... for auditors ...
for contingent expenses . for reporting decisions ; safe .

Page. 170, 906 170, 906 171,906 171,906

for claims allowed by, under Bowman

and Tucker acts

207

for findings in, French spoliation claims . 217

for transferring Indian depredation

claims to ...

262

for printing and binding

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for repairs to

building

25, 1066

for printing and binding .

27

for paying judgments

27, 583, 1070

settlement of claim of Pennsylvania .. 583

judgment in favor of Elias E. Barnes,

not to be paid

1070

for judgments, Indian depredation

claims

27,584, 1070

for electric lighting .

579

for Wichita, etc. , Indians

583

for increase in salaries of judges

1065

claims for erroneous Porto Rican duties to

be brought in

176

for refund of duties on steel blooms

to be tried in ..

764

of land officials for commissions, etc.,

sale of Osage lands, to be tried in.. 1010

reference of certain claims to ..

243

salaries of judges increased .

825

to determine rights, etc. , of Chickasaw

freedmen

649

rights of Delawares to funds, etc. , of

Cherokees ..

718

claims of Cherokees against the United

States ..

726

to rehear claim of Penny and Sons .

1492

of John Hornick

1492

Court of Private Land Claims,

appropriation for justices, clerk, etc ... 169, 1144

for deputy clerks

169, 1144

for assistant attorneys, etc.

169

deficiency appropriation for expenses

578

powers continued till July 1 , 1903 .

170

till July 1 , 1904; cases to be given pref-

erence

1144

Courts, J. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 26 Courts-Martial, etc. , Army,

appropriation for expenses Courts of the Philippines,
powers and jurisdiction of supreme first instance

511 , 933
695 695

municipal ..

695

appointment of judges, etc

695

Covey, Israel P.,

pension increased ..

1288

Covey, John W. ,

pension increased .

1585

Covington, Ky.,

terms of court

58

Cowan, R. F. ,

payment to .

487

Cowgill, Joseph,

pension increased ..

1318

Cowie, Frances (widow),

pension ...

1649

Cowles, George,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

208

Cowlitz River, Wash., appropriation for improvement of................... 370

2076

INDEX .

Cowper, John,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .....

232

Cox, Emmet,

appropriation for reimbursement....

267

fee-simple title to .....

1008

Cox, James S. ,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrators of

222, 225

Coyne, F. E.,

credit in accounts.

1286

Craig, John,

pension increased.......

1292

Craig, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1678

Craine, John W.,

pension increased .

1469

Cramer, Jennie H. (widow) ,

pension increased ....

1621

Crandall, Susan P. (widow),

pension

1283

Crater Lake National Park,

appropriation for protecting, etc ..

1119

deficiency appropriation for improvement . 571

established; boundaries ..

202

lands withdrawn from entry, sale, etc.

202

custody, regulations, etc.

202

settlement, etc., in, prohibited ; penalty .. 203

open to visitors, etc.

203

mining locations .

203

hotels, etc., permitted

203

Crawford and Company, James,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner... 222

Crawford, John H.,

pension increased .

1478

Crawford, William C.,

pension fncreased .

1718

Crawfordsville, Ind.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1084

Creek Indians,

appropriation for funding annuities .

249

for per capita to certain ...

250

for paying "loyal Creek claims

994

to heirs of deceased persons

995

for S. W. Peel , attorney .

995

for David M. Hodge

995

enrollment of children born prior to May

25, 1901 ..

258

descent and distribution of property modi-

fied .....

258

proclamation ' announcing ratification of agreement with...
of supplemental agreement with .. supplemental agreement for allotment in
severalty, etc. , ratified . allotment of lands

1971 2021
500 500

descent and distribution

501

rolls of citizenship.

501

roads; town sites .

502

cemeteries

503

per capita distribution

503

court-house reservations repealed ..

503

homestead selections ...

503

grazing leases ; possession of lands ..

504

ratification by national council

505

Creek Nation, Ind. T. ,

appropriation for town-site expenses ... 259, 996

for removing intruders and settling al-

lottees

259

lawful possessors of lots may remain . 259

share of each member in tribal lands

until allotted ..

260

Crefeld, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .....

Page. 83,815 86,818

Crescent City Jockey Club, La.,

payment to .

488

Creston, Iowa,

appropriation for public building ..

420

Crewe, W. G.,

payment to

490

Criers, etc., United States Courts,

appropriation for pay; attendance .... 476 , 1141

Crill, Edward S. ,

payment to

1611

Crim, Isaac H.,

pension increased..

1319

Crimes,

appropriation for expenses, prosecution

of ..

474, 1140

deficiency appropriation for prosecution

of

1075

evidence necessary to convict for treason,

in Philippines ..

55

Crimes and Misdemeanors,

criminal jurisdiction of United States

courts over Indian reservations, S.

Dak

793

immigration offenses; punishment for im-

porting, etc. , prostitutes ...

1214

for importing alien contract labor .......

1214

for advertising to encourage alien labor

immigration...

1215

for soliciting alien labor immigration by

vessel owners, etc

1215

for illegally landing aliens, etc ....

1215

for importing alien with loathsome dis-

ease

1215

for permitting illegal landing of alien .. 1218

for refusing to return illegally landed

alien

1218

for false statements, etc. , before immi-

gration officers

1219

for illegally procuring naturalization ... 1222

for aiding illegal naturalization

1222

interstate-commerce offenses ; imprison-

ment penalties abolished .

847

penalty for carriers failing to file or keep

tariffs ..

847

for giving rebates, concessions, etc.

847

penalty for falsely branding food, etc. ,

products ..

632

for traffic in dead human bodies, Dis-

trict of Columbia ..

175

for securing offices, etc. , in District of

Columbia by money, etc

591

for injury to electrical property, District

of Columbia...

534

for violating personal-tax law, District

of Columbia..

license laws, District of Columbia ..

mining regulations ...

for willful failure to testify in land hear-

ings

790

punishment for accepting fee for securing

special pension acts .

62, 761

for assaulting railway clerk while on

duty.

1176

for attaching lottery tickets, etc. , with

manufactured tobacco, cigarettes,

etc

715

for consular officers failing to deliver

money, etc. , received as administra-

tor, etc

547

for horse stealing, Indian Territory

792

INDEX .

2077

Crimes and Misdemeanors- Continued. punishment for injury to rural free-delivery boxes, etc. extended to all mail-route boxes .. for sale of arms and intoxicants in Pacific islands .

Page.
113 1175
33

Crow Indians-Continued. distribution of common herd of cattle .... per capita from sales of cattle .. purchase of stock cattle ..
Crow Wing County, Minn., may bridge Mississippi River..

Page. 265 266 266
391

for stealing, killing, etc. , live stock, In-

Cruisers, Navy,

dian Territory

792 construction of two first-class armored,

for traffic in arms, etc. , Pacific islands .. 33

authorized; cost ...

690

for train robberies, etc. , in the Terri-

Crum , Paul,

tories ..

727 military record corrected .

1393

for unlawful entry of railway post-office

Crummett, Rose O. (widow) ,

car or compartment .

1176 pension

1658

for violating regulation of interstate traf-

fic in viruses, etc...

729

for violating rules to prevent spread of

contagious diseases of animals ....

792

Criminal Procedure, D. C. ,

peremptory challenges permitted District . 536

depositions may be taken of witnesses be-

yond the District

537

Criminals,

appropriation for bringing home, from for-

eign lands .

79, 810

Crisps Point, Mich.,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion ...

431

Crist, John M.,

pension increased .

1439

Croll, W. A. ,

payment to.

489

Cronk, Hiram,

pension increased .

1271

Crump, Hon. R. O. , late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

581

Crystal River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of........ 354

Cuba, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation for second secretary .
for consular service ..

199, 807 199, 808 199, 809
199

deficiency appropriation for equipping

legation, etc.

552

for clerk hire, consulates .

553

for contingent expenses, consulates

553

for clerks, etc. , statement of expendi-

tures in ..

563

citizens of, exempt from immigrant tax .. 1213

proclamation suspending discriminating

tonnage, etc. , duties on vessels and

goods of

2013

Cronk, Silas H., pension .
Crooker, Charles T., pension increased .
Crookston, Minn.,

Cuba, Military Government in,

1270 appropriation for arranging, etc. , civil

records of ..

1129

1335 Culbreath, Joseph,

pension increased

1345

construction of public building authorized

Culebra, Porto Rico,

at

320 appropriation for marine barracks .....

690

appropriation for

429 Culpeper, Josiah,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

ing site

1038

administrator of ...

216

limit of cost increased, site for public

Culver, Charles P. ,

building

1207 payment to heirs of..

237

provision for public building, omnibus act,

Culver, Mary E. (widow),

transposed

745 pension

1457

Crop Report, Monthly,

Cumberland Female College,

appropriation for expenses ; contents .. 300, 1162 payment to, for use and occupation ................ 234

Cropsey, Emma R. (widow), pension increased .
Crosby, Louisa A. (widow) , pension increased .

Cumberland, Md. , 1673 appropriation for public building ..... 420, 1084
limit of cost increased , public building ... 312 1458 Cumberland River, Tenn.,

Cross, Fannie S. (widow) , pension increased ..

appropriation for improvement of, below

1540

Nashville

358,408

Cross, John J., pension increased .
Cross, Levi, pension increased .
Crosser, John S., pension increased .

1555 1261 15381

for improvement of, above Nashville,

Lock and Dam No. 1 ; water-power

leases ..

358, 408

bridge authorized across, Nashville, Tenn . 390

time extended for constructing bridge

across, at Carthage, Tenn

925

Crouch, Jonathan,

Cumberland Sound, Ga, and Fla.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

| appropriation for improvement of

462, 1124

executors of ..........

217 Cummings, Hon. A. J. , late a Representative in

Crousillat, Louis,

Congress,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

deficiency appropriation for widow

581

ministrators of..

225 Cummings, Charles L.,

Crow Agency, Mont. ,

pension increased

1383

appropriation for Indian agent at

245,982 Cummings, George,

Crow Creek Agency, S. Dak.,

pension increased

1693

appropriation for Indian agent at ----- 245, 982 Cummings, Ill.,

Crow, Herman D. ,

bridge authorized across Calumet Riverat . 660

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1064 Cuneo, John B.,

Crow Indians,

payment to

487

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 250, 986 Cunningham, Ephraim,

for support, etc. , of .

991 pension increased ..

1668

2078

INDEX .

Cupps, David, pension increased.
Curaao, West Indies, appropriation for consul at

Page. 1256
83, 815

Customs Revenue,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for collecting

7,

29,557, 585, 1036, 1072, 1076

for detecting, etc. , frauds

1072

Curd, Alexander, pension increased ..

1550

goods withdrawn from warehouse subject

to duty then in force....

753

Curley, James, pension increased ....

on articles from Philippines to be used for

1713

the islands ....

54

Curran, Phineas, pension increased .
Current River, Ark. ,

inspectors at New York allowed additional

1370

pay ...

753

Customs Service,

bridge authorized across, in Randolph County
Current River, Ark. and Mo., appropriation for improvement of........
Currituck Sound, N. C.,

1 357

appraisers at Philadelphia and Boston reduced to one each ; salary increased. 715

launch for Astoria, Oreg. , authorized

70

special examiner of drugs, etc. , Philadel-

phia ; salary increased

730

appropriation for waterway through, Nor-

Customs Tariffs, International Bureaufor Pub-

folk to Albemarle Sound .

351

lication of,

Curry, John R.,

appropriation for contribution ..........

80,811

pension increased....

1558 Cut chubby, Robert,

Curry, John R. , pension increased..

deficiency appropriation for payment to

1622

estate of

1077

Curtis, John,

Cutter, Daniel and Jacob,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of

214

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223

Curtis, Moses S., pension increased .

Cutts, Edward, 1477  payment of French spoliation claim to ad-
ministrator of

Curtis, Richmond M., pension increased .
Curtis, Wellington D.,

13740 Cypress Bayou, Tex., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

pension increased .

1265

Cushing, Kate Virginia Dewey (widow) ,

pension increased..

1257

Cushing, Martin G.,

pension increased ..

1692

Cushing, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

229, 231

Cushings Island, Portland, Me..

appropriation for purchase of battery sites,

etc

305

D.

Da Silva, John,

pension increased..

401

Dagnall, Elbert H.,

pension increased ..

1696

Dairy Products,

appropriation for chemical examination of,

and adulterants ..

297, 1158

inspection and certification of, for ex-

port

290, 1151

discretion in Secretary of War for purchasing land for fortifications sites ..... 1024

Cushman, Nannie (widow),

pension increased ..

1681

Custer, Jacob R. ,

payment to ..

1452

Custers, Mathias,

pension increased .

1570

penalty for labeling, with false place of

origin

632

Dakota Southern Railroad Company,

time extended for bridge across Missouri

River, Yankton, S. Dak. , by

35

Dallas, Tex.,

appropriation for public building ..... 424, 1084

limit of cost increased, public building... 314

terms of court ..

69

Customs,

Dalrymple, Charles,

appropriation for compensation in lieu of

pension increased ..

1543

moieties

449, 1111 Daly, Michael J.,

deficiency appropriation for compensation

pension increased ...............

1415

in lieu of moieties

1036 Dam,

Customs Administration Laws,

consent for, across St. Croix River, Wis.. 802

applicable to trade with Philippines .... 55 , 711 Dam, Saint Lawrence River,

Customs Districts,

consent given to Canadian government for,

Arizona, Naco inade subport of entry.... 484

Les Galops Island , N. Y

392

Montana and Idaho , Great Falls, Mont.,

Damon, Frederick W.,

port of entry

485 pension increased ..

1616

Customs Duties, articles for Charleston Exposition admitted free of..
sold, to be subject to claims for, erroneously paid in Porto Rico
to be brought in Court of Claims ... none to be imposed on anthracite coal.
provisions for trade with Philippines .. rebate of, on all coal for one year . refund of, on goods from Porto Rico be-

Damariscotta River, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

734 Dame, Harvey,

734 payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .

214

176 Dams (see Locks and Dams) .

773 Daniels, Abby T. (widow),

54 pension increased..........

1416

Daniels, Christina (mother),

pension .

1290

tween April 11, 1899 , and May 1,

Daniels, Edgar T.,

1900 .

1224 pension increased ..

1404

Philippine Islands between April 11 , Daniels, George, 1899, and March 8, 1902 1224 pension increased ... 1324

INDEX .

2079

Dantzler, A. D.;

Page.

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses

581

Danville, Ill.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

471, 1136

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home..

14, 1049, 1073

for building, Volunteer Soldiers' Home . 564

Danville, Va., terms of court .

552, 794

Daren, Aggy,

deficiency appropriation for paying estate

of

1077

Darien, Ga., appropriation for improvement of harbor.
Darling, Flora A., payment to ..
Darton, Nelson Horatio, report on geology, etc. , of Black Hills re-
gion by, ordered printed .... Daughters ofthe American Revolution,
property in square 173, D. C. , exempted from taxes
report of, 1890 to 1897, ordered printed ... Dauphin, Theophile A.,
pension increased.... Davenport, Henry L.,
pension increased ..
Davenport, Iowa, appropriation for improvement of Mississippi River at
Davenport, James L. , alias Dexter Davis, pension increased ..
Darid, John B., deficiency appropriation for services .....
David, William C., pension increased .
Davidson, Francis S., return requested from President of bill for relief of.....
Davidson, John J. , formerly John Dinneen, pension increased ..
Daridson, Samuel F., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Davidson, William Lee, appropriation for monument to BrigadierGeneral....

337 1570
1769
907 1772 1341 1678
366 1746 572 1345
1773 1643
208
1229

Daris, Allen C., pension increased ..
Daris, Charles C., pension increased ..
Daris, George, pension increased.......
Davis, Hilas D., pension increased ..
Daris, Homer, pension increased ..
Davis, Isaac P., payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .

1552 1517 1666 1656 1645
232

Daris, J. D.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

214

Davis, J. V., payment to
Daris, Jacob R. , payment to heirs of....
Davis, James G., pension increased ..
Davis, Mary E. (widow) ,
pension ... Davis, William W. H.,
pension increased ....

1278 238 1678 1237 1474

Dawes Commission ( see Five Civilized Tribes, Page.

etc. ).

Dawson City, Northwest Territory,

appropriation for consul at

81 , 813

for clerk hire ....

86, 818

Day, John W.,

pension increased ..........

1726

Dayton, Ohio,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

468, 1132

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home ..

14, 586, 1048

for electric-light plant.

14

for repairs Soldiers' Home

564

jurisdiction over Soldiers' Home location

ceded to Ohio

732

De Bene Esse Depositions, D. C. ,

provisions for taking, modified ....

538

De Fontes, Joseph,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices ..

583, 1069

De Garis, William G.,

pension increased .

1448

De Graffenreid, Hon. R. C. , late a Representative in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow ...... 1067

De Graw, George W.,

pension increased .

1412

De la Porte, Frederick,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

224

De Lamater, Martha A. (widow),

pension .

1319

De Long, Harrison T. ,

pension increased .

1246

De Marse, Henry E.,

pension increased .

1341

Dead Human Bodies, D. C.,

distribution of, from almshouse, morgue,

etc

173

Dead- Letter Office, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, etc ... 164, 900

Deadwood, S. Dak.,

appropriation for salaries, assay office at . 147 , 881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147 , 881

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for terms of court .

427, 1084 197

Deaf and Dumb Institution (see Columbia In-

stitution for Deaf and Dumb ) .

Deafness,

pension for total , increased ..

773

for partial, not affected

773

Dealers in General Merchandise, D. C.

personal tax on; sworn statements re-

quired ; distraint ....

618

Debts, D. C., filing lists of, by executors repealed .................. 530
Decatur, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

427, 1084

Declaration, International,

prohibiting for five years the launching of projectiles from balloons ............ 1839

Deeds,

affecting lands in District of Columbia or

Territories may be acknowledged

before notaries in Philippines and

Porto Rico .

88

return requested from President of bill rel-

ative to execution in Philippines

and Porto Rico of, concerning real estate in Territories and the District . 1765

2080

INDEX .

Deeds, D. C. (see also Real Estate, D. C. ) , release of dower ..

Page. 531

acknowledged out of the District ; authen-

tication .

531

made in foreign country; officers author-

ized

531

by corporations ; officers authorized to

sign

531

take effect from delivery ; as to creditors,

from recording ..

531

provision as to implied covenants repealed . 532 estates which may be conveyed extended . 532

acknowledgments prior to Code recog-

nized ...

532

effect of, executed prior to adoption of

code ..

532

punishment for maliciously recording

false .

535

Deeds, Indian Territory,

provisions for recording .

841

Deeds of Trust, D. C.,

effect of execution, etc. , the same as ab-

solute deeds ..

532

absolute title conveyed under

532

recording

532

sections of Code as to assignments re-

pealed

532

power of court as to sales under....

532

sections as to injunctions, bids by debtors,

etc. , repealed ..

533

Deery, Eliza C. (widow),

pension increased ..

1575

Defending Suits in Claims,

appropriation for expenses of......... 473 , 1139

deficiency appropriation for expenses

25,

577, 1063

Deficiency Appropriations,

for transcript from records, etc. , public

lands ..

1

for Department of State ..

5,552, 1031

diplomatic and consular service.. 5,552, 1032

for Treasury Department ..... 6, 118, 553, 1033

collecting customs revenue

7,557, 1036

collecting internal revenue

8,557, 1040

public buildings .

8, 558 , 1037

Engraving and Printing Bureau ... 8 , 558, 1040

Coast and Geodetic Survey .

9,558

Light-House Establishment

9,559, 1041

mints and assay offices .

10, 559 , 1041

Independent Treasury

10, 559

government in the Territories ... 10, 560, 1042

Fish Commission .. Revenue-Cutter Service .

10, 559 558, 1041

expositions .. Life-Saving Service .

555 1037

for Interstate Commerce Commission 11 , 1042

for District of Columbia ; half from Dis-

trict revenues 11, 93, 119, 560, 774, 1042

for War Department

12, 563, 758, 1044

Army .

12 , 94 , 563, 1045

Military Academy Volunteer Soldiers' Homes

13, 564 13, 564, 1048

buildings and grounds, D. C. for Navy Department

1046 15, 565, 1049

naval establishment..

15, 94, 565, 1049

Marine Corps ..

17,568, 1052

for Interior Department.
Capitol and grounds Twelfth Census ..

18, 569 , 759, 1054 19,570, 1055 570, 1059

Government Hospital for Insane . 20, 571 , 1055

public lands ..

20, 571 , 1055

Geological Survey

21 , 94, 1057

Indian Department pensions .

22, 575, 1058 23, 1059

for Post-Office Department

23,576, 759, 1060

postal service ..

23, 576, 759, 1061

Deficiency Appropriations-Continued .

Page.

for Department of Justice

24,576, 1062

United States courts

284, 579, 1065

judicial

578, 1064

for Spanish Claims Commission ..

24, 1069

for Department of Agriculture .. for Court of Claims

25, 758, 1062 25,579, 1066

for Senate........ .

25 , 118, 285, 580, 759, 1067

for House of Representatives

26,

118, 285, 581 , 759, 774, 1067

for printing and binding

27,

94, 118, 285, 583, 774, 1069

for judgments, Court of Claims

27,583, 1070

in Indian depredation claims United States courts

27,584, 1070 28, 584, 1070

Potomac flats cases

1071

prize-money claims, battle of Manila

Bay

1072

for paying claims certified by accounting

officers ...

28,585, 1072

for Executive office .

118, 1031

for Civil Service Commission

285

for widow of William McKinley

579

for index of Congressional Debates .

580

for Legislative....

1066

for Library of Congress

1069

for Botanic Garden .

1069

for refund to States

1078

for balance to South Carolina

1078

for paying insurance companies

1078

for salaries and expenses Department of

Commerce and Labor .....

1080

Degetau, Federico,

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses .

1042

Deits, Albert,

pension increased..........

1420

Dekalb, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1084

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1203
Del Norte, Colo. , court, etc. , transferred to Montrose ..... 833

Delafield, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223

Delamater, Almond,

pension increased .

1313

Delany, Franklin B ,

pension increased ..

1305

Delony, Lewis H.,

pension increased ..

1359

Delaware,

payment to, Spanish war claim

486

Delaware Bay,

preliminary examination of, to be made

of harbor of refuge............

376

Delaware Indians,

determination of right to Cherokee lands . 718

Delaware River,

appropriation for lighting .

453, 1094

for ranges, Port Penn, Reedy Island,

and Finns Point ...

430

Delaware River, N. J. , Pa. , and Del.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

350

for improvement of, Philadelphia to

Delaware Bay .

1126

" Delaware," Scow,

deficiency appropriation for compensating

owners of

1053

Delegates from Territories,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age

124, 858

for clerk hire .

127,861

INDEX .

2081

Delegates from Territories-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion

581 , 1067

number of copies of Congressional Record

to, increased

786

Department of Agriculture-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for collecting sta-

tistics ..

25

for publications . for Division of Publications

25, 1062 25

"Delight," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

219

Demerara, British Guiana, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ....

82, 814 86, 818

Deming, Hiram D. ,

pension increased ..

1626

Demonbrum, Ann (widow),

pension increased ..

1295

Denmark, appropriation for minister to ....
extradition treaty with Dennis, Cornelia 4. (widow) ,
pension increased . Deno, Simeon,
pension increased ..

76, 807 1906
1513
1663

Dental Surgeons, Army, appropriation for .

.... 511 , 933

Denver, Colo., appropriation for salaries, mint at

145 , 880

for wages and contingent expenses ... 145 , 880

for public building, mint ..

1084

for machinery, etc. , mint

1109

assay office to continue until mint estab-

lished

145 , 880

limit of cost increased , mint ..

311

regular term, circuit court of appeals.

329

sale of lands for water supply

716

terms of court at

833

forBureauof Animal Industry . 25, 32, 758, 1075

for contingent expenses.

32, 1062

for pathological investigations

32

for botanical investigations .

32

for gardens and grounds ..

32

for laboratory ...

32

for soil investigations

32, 1075

for entomological investigations .

32

for biological investigations...

32

for agricultural experiment stations ..

32

for seeds ...

32

for Weather Bureau for printing . for W. C. Heath .. for sugar production . for forestry investigations.

32, 590, 1075 94
1062 1075 1077

additional copies of bulletin on irrigation

in California ordered printed .

1768

building for, authorized ; plans ..

806

supervisor of construction ; pay

806

limit of cost ...

806

change in enrollment of appropriation bill

directed

1770

franks for Congressional seed distribution

to be furnished ..

741

printing ofspecial report on Cattle Diseases

authorized

743

Diseases of the Horse authorized

745

provisions for distribution of Woodsman's

Handbook

746

Department of Agriculture (see also Weather

Bureau),

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc ..

286, 1147

for Weather Bureau

286, 1148

for Bureau of Animal Industry

288, 1150

for Bureau of Plant Industry

290, 1152

experimental gardens and grounds . 293 , 1154

seed distribution ...

293, 1155

for Bureau of Forestry

295, 1156

for Bureau of Chemistry for Bureau of Soils ....

296, 1157 297, 1159

for Division of Entomology

298, 1160

for Division of Biological Survey 298, 1160

for Division of Accounts and Disburse-

report on forests, etc. , Southern Appalachian region, ordered printed ...
Department of Commerce and Labor, established .
Secretary, appointment, salary , etc. provisions as to Executive Departments
extended to .
seal to be made ; judicial notice .. Assistant Secretary and clerical force .. accounts to be audited by Auditor for State,
etc., Departments ... duties in promotion of commerce
manufacturing, shipping, etc. , industries . labor interests . transportation facilities .

1768
825 825
826 826 826
826 826 826 826 826

ments .... for Division of Publications

299, 1161 299, 1161

availability of appropriations for offices,

etc., transferred

826

for Division of Statistics ..

300, 1162 offices, etc. , transferred from Treasury De-

for Division of Foreign Markets .. 300, 1162

partment ...

826

for library, salaries and expenses . 300, 1163

Census Office ...

826

for museum .

301 , 1163

Department of Labor

827

for contingent expenses

301 , 1163 |

Fish Commission .

827

for experiment stations, expenses... 301 , 1163

Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico .. 302 , 1164

for nutrition investigations .

302, 1164

for irrigation investigations ..

302, 1165

for public-road investigations .

302, 1165

for silk-culture investigations .

303

reorganized bureaus to carry out exist-

ing laws...

303

estimates to be prepared on basis of

year preceding..

303

to show in detail all employees in

previous year...

303

for eradicating contagious diseases of

animals .

1165

for printing and binding

480, 1146

Bureau of Foreign Commerce ; consoli-

dation ...

827

compilation and distribution of statistics.. 827

records, etc. , of bureaus, etc. , assigned, to

be transferred .

827

Bureau of Manufactures created ; office

force

827

collection, etc. , of information .

827

assistance of consular officers ; reports .. 827

Bureau of Corporations established; Com-

missioner, deputy, etc

827

duties as to interstate and foreign com-

merce corporations

828

common carriers excepted .

828

power to secure testimony, etc

828

for printing and binding annual re-

port

480, 1146

for construction of new building

1139

compilation of information as to corpo-

rations in interstate and foreign

commerce ..

828

VOL XXXII , PT 2--54

2082

INDEX .

Department of Commerce and Labor- Cont'd . Page. Department of Justice-Continued.

Page.

Bureau of Corporations; compilation of information as to insurance, etc ... 828

jurisdiction over Alaskan seal, etc. , fisheries 828

alien immigration

828

head tax collection not changed

828

Chinese exclusion

828

duties of Treasury officials transferred 828

appropriation for United States courts .. 169, 905

for civil expenses under...

473, 1139

for repairs to court-house, Washing-

ton .

473, 1139

for penitentiary, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans.; construction ....

473, 1139

Atlanta, Ga.; building, etc.

473

annual report; extent of .

829

special investigations and reports .

829

control of building, property, contingent

expenses, etc ..

829

offices transferred may retain present quar-

ters ....

829

officers, clerks, etc. , transferred, to retain

present grade and salaries ...

829

for twenty-fourth volume Opinions of

Attorney-General

1139

for defending suits in claims .

473, 1139

for expenses, Spanish Claims Commis-

sion

473, 1139

for punishing violations of intercourse

acts (Indian ) ..

474, 1139

for prosecution of crimes .

474, 1140

duties of bureaus, etc. , transferred , as de-

fined by law, continued ....

829

power and authority over bureaus trans-

ferred vested in Secretary

829

jurisdiction, etc. , of Secretary of Treasury

over shipping, etc. , to be transferred

fortravelingand emergency expenses . 474, 1140

for prosecuting, etc. , claims ....

474, 1140

for Alaska expenses ...

474, 1140

for defense, Indian depredation claims .. 474, 1140

for counsel, Mission Indians

474, 1140

to Secretary of Commerce and La-

bor ..

829

for care of buildings for rent

474, 1140 1140

officer to prepare instructions to , and edit

reports from, consuls ..

830

for insular and Territorial affairs .. 474, 1140 for expenses, Spanish Claims Commis-

salary, assistants ...

830

sion

474

transfer of statistical and scientific work

for United States courts

475, 1140

from other departments author-

ized

830

for penitentiaries . for printing and binding .

476, 1142 480, 1146

power and authority over offices, etc. , transferred, to vest in Department

deficiency appropriation for judgment,

Thornton . Brent

24

or Secretary of Commerce and Labor ..
act to take effect after passage
offices, etc. , to be transferred July 1 , 1903 .. deficiency appropriation for Secretary , As-
sistant, etc ... for chief Bureau of Manufactures .

830 830 830
1081 1081

for George V. Borchsenius

24

for insular and Territorial expenses .

24

for Spanish Claims Commission..

24

for Alaska expenses ...... 25,577, 587, 1063

for defending suits in claims ..... 25,577, 1063

for United States courts

25,

32, 284, 590, 1064, 1077

for Commissioner of Corporations, deputy, chief clerk ..
for clerks, messengers, etc .. for contingent expenses . for rent .
for printing and binding for special agents, pay and expenses for offices transferred, available for ex-
penditure in new Department

1081 . 1081 1081 1081 1081 1081
1082

for printing and binding

118,774

for repairs court-house, Washington , D.C. 576

for books for library .

576

for furniture ; stationery

576, 1062

for contingent expenses

576, 1062

for rent

577, 1063

for defense, Indian depredation claims. 577

for William T. Paty .

577

for Myron E. Wheeler

577

for printing, contingent, etc., to be al-

for R. L. Manley

lotted

1082

for J. H. Slater .

577

transfers from Treasury Department

1082

appropriations to be disbursed by new

Department .....

1082

estimates in detail for employees and ex-

penses to be submitted ....

1082

bureaus, etc. , transferred to retain present

quarters temporarily ..........

1082

removal of Bureau of Immigration and Steamboat- Inspection Service ..... 1082

deficiency appropriation for chief of bureau, etc. , in Department of State to

prepare consular reports ...

1082

correction in enrollment of bill establish-

ing ...

1773

Department of Justice,

appropriation for Attorney-General, Assist-

ants, Solicitor-General, clerks, etc. 167, 903

for contingent expenses .

168, 903

for enforcing interstate-commerce and

antitrust laws

903

for rent.

904

for jail, Eagle City, Alaska

578

for John W. Langley .

578

for disbursing clerk, salary

1062

for courts, Indian Territory .

1062

for costs, Robert W. McClaughry

1063

for penitentiary, Atlanta, Ga ...

1063

for court-house and jail, Juneau, Alaska . 1063

for jails, Indian Territory

1063

for miscellaneous

1063, 1075

for W. N. Landers ..

1064

for Herman D. Crow.

1064

for C. R. Pickard .

1064

for legal representatives of Judge John

B. Rector .

1064

for prosecution of crimes .

1075

assistant to Attorney-General and Assist-

ant Attorney-General, to be paid

from enforcement of anti-trust laws. 1062

provision for new building repealed ...

326

unexpended balance returned to Treas-

ury .

326

for Solicitor of the Treasury, assistant,

clerks, etc .....

168, 904

for books and stationery

168, 904

statistical or scientific work in , may be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor

830

INDEX .

2083

Department of Labor,

Page.

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

special agents, etc..

168, 904

for per diem, experts and others .. 168, 904

for reports and materials .

168, 904

for share International Association for

Labour Legislation

168, 904

for stationery, books, etc.

168, 904

for rent ...

169, 905

for contingent expenses

169,905

for printing and binding

480, 1146

to receive one copy Congressional Record . 786

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor ....

827

Department of State,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants ,

clerks, etc..

132, 866

for stationery, furniture, etc. for books and maps ..

133, 867 133, 867

for lithographer, etc ...

133, 867

for contingent expenses

133, 867

for Solicitor .

167, 903

for diplomatic and consular service ... 76, 807

for printing in the ...

78, 809

for marking Mexican boundary line ....... 478

for printing and binding

480, 1145

for Canadian boundary line west of

Rocky Mountains summit ..

1138

for Alaskan boundary tribunal

1138

for new examination of fur-seal life, etc. 1138

for examination , etc. , proposed Pan-

American Railway..

1138

for diplomatic cooperation for gold and

silver standards

1138

Depositories of Public Money, provisions for, in Philippines ..
Derby, William S., pension increased.........

Page. 711
1269

Derieux, Peter,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

215

Des Moines, Iowa,

acquiring new public building site ; recom-

mendations for building, etc..

324

appropriation for ..

429

Des Moines River Land- Grant Claims,

deficiency appropriation for commissioner

adjusting

1057

Des Plaines River, Ill.,

appropriation for survey, etc. , of, for navi-

gable waterway, Lockport to Saint

Louis .

364

Descents, D. C. ,

illegitimate children to take no interest by,

from non compos mother

537

equalization of advancements by children . 537

Desdoity, John B.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

223

Desecration of Graves, D. C.,

return requested from President of bill to

prevent, etc.

1766

Desert Lands,

appropriation for examination of, selected

by States...

452, 1115

Design Patents,

may issue for any new design for articles

of manufacture .

193

deficiency appropriation for diplomatic and

time for application in this country and

consular service .

5,

abroad ...

1225

31 , 552, 590 , 1032 , 1074, 1077 | Detchemendy, George A. ,

for contingent expenses ..

5, 1031 may be reappointed captain of infantry

for repaying La Abra and Weil claims ..

5

and retired ..

956

for recutting Great Seal.

552, 1032 Detroit, Mich.,

for expenses arbitration of "the pious

appropriation for lookouts to protect mail

fund of the Californias"

552

for claims, schooners " E. R. Nicker-

in post-office ...

1090

for marine postal service ; contracts .. 111 , 1170

son " and " Wary" for stationery, etc

552 1031

condemned cannon donated for statue of

General Macomb ..

750

for purchase of horses and vehicles

1032 Detroit River,

for law clerk, editing laws, first session

Fifty-seventh Congress .

1032

appropriations for improvement of ; Detroit to Lake Erie ; contracts .... 360 , 463 , 1127

assistant, second session .

1032

for keeper's dwelling, Grosse Isle ranges . 853

for indemnity Italians killed and injured

at Erwin, Miss .

1032

keeper's dwelling authorized, Ecorse range

lights ..

191

for rent, dispatch agency, New York... 1032 for chief of bureau, etc. , to prepare con-

sular reports for Department of

Commerce and Labor ..

1082

calendars of Jefferson , Madison, and Mon-

appropriation for preliminary examination of, to be made;
channel to Wyandotte
Detweiler, Eunice P. (widow), pension increased

431 379 1240

roe correspondence ordered printed . 1768

statistical or scientific work in, may be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor

830

Department of the Interior (see Interior De-

partment ) .

Deportation of Aliens,

provisions for, illegally imported

1218

illegally entered, or become a public

charge, in two years

1218

within three years

1218

Depositing Public Moneys, appropriation for expenses, land offices . 452, 1115

deficiency appropriation for expenses . 21 , 1056

Depositions, D. C.,

may be taken in criminal cases of wit-

nesses beyond District ..

537

conditions modified for, de bene esse.

538

oral , authorized

540

Devens, Major- General Charles, condemned cannon donated for statue to . 751

Devereaux, D. H. ,

payment to

487

Devereux, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

ecutrix of ..

226

Devils Lake Agency, N. Dak., appropriation for Indian agent at
Devils Lake Indian Reservation, N. Dak. , appropriation for resurvey
Devils Lake, N. Dak., construction of bridge authorized .

245, 982 264 265

Devils Lake Sioux Indians, N. Dak.,
appropriation for support, etc. , of ... Devine, Michael,
pension .... Devitt, Thomas H. ,

256 1642

pension...

1480

2084

INDEX.

Devlin, F. A., payment to

Page. Diplomatic and Consular Service--Cont'd. Page. 1452 appropriation for Bureau of Weights and

Deweese, John T. ,

Measures

79,811

pension increased ..

1663

for Bureau of Customs Tariffs

80,811

Dewstoe, Jessie R. (widow ), pension increased ....
Dexter, Edward,

for Mexican Boundary Commission ... 80,811

1593

for Bureau, Suppression of Slave Trade . 80,811

for Red Cross conference ..

80

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

for International Prison Commission.. 80, 812

ministrator of ..

223, 225, 230

for Geodetic Association

89,812

Dexter, James E. , pension increased ..

for repairs to legations and consulates . 80,812

1330

for permanent court of arbitration .... 81,812

Diamond State Iron Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

for consular service .... for salaries, consuls-general..

81,813 81.813

ment

764

consuls ...

81, 813

claim of agents for, referred to Court of

Claims ; payment ..

764

Dibert, Mary L. (mother) ,

pension .

1363

Dick, John W. ,

pension increased .

1565

for consular clerks .. payment to officers not citizens
for clerks at consulates; allowance . for interpreters, etc. , to consulates . for marshals, consular courts for consular prisons ..

85,817 86,818 86,818 86,818 87.819 87.819

Dickey, James E., pension ..

for relief and protection of American

1472

seamen

87,819

Dickey, Lavalette D. (widow), pension increased .

for foreign hospitals, Cape Town and

1346

Panama...

87,819

Dickinson, Edward S., pension increased ..
Dickson, C. R. , military record corrected ..

for preparation, etc. , consular reports . 87, 812

1235

for contingent expenses, consulates ... 88,819

loss by exchange

88,820

1289

for Bureau of American Republics . 88,812

101

Dies, Rolls, and Plates, appropriation for custody of, securities .
Dietrich,William F.,
fee simple patents to .... Diffenderfer, W. H. ,
payment to Digger Indians, Cal.,

448, 1110 1008 489

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ing, Tokyo, Japan .

5

for award to Chile .

5

for repaying Mexico La Abra and Weil

claims

5

for unforeseen emergencies ..

5,32

for chargs d'affaires ad interim

5, 1033

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 255, 992

for interpreters to legations ...

Dillon, Ardenia (widow), pension increased ...

for contingent expenses, missions ..

6,32,

1659

587 , 1032, 1074

Dillon, Michael, pension increased ..

for contingent expenses, consulates... 6, 32,

1238

553 , 587, 590 , 1033 , 1074

Dimmit County, Tex. , transferred to western judicial district........... 820

Dinwiddie, W. Walter,

deficiency appropriation for salary ......

15

Diplomatic and Consular Service,

appropriation for diplomatic service

76, 807

for publication of consular, etc. , reports. 6, 1033

for instruction pay, consuls ..

31, 1074

for salaries, secretaries .

31

for consular salaries ..... 32, 553, 587, 590, 1074

for loss by exchange, missions...

32, 1074

for relief, etc. , American seamen.

32,

for salaries, ambassadors and ministers . 76 , 807

for consul-general, Constantinople, and

agent, Sofia

76

587, 590, 1075, 1077

for legation and consulates, Cuba ..

552

for estate of Solomon Hirsch

1032

for agent, etc. , Cairo

76, 808

for International Union of American

for chargs d'affaires ad interim, etc ... 76, 808

Republics ....

1033

for instruction and transit pay.

76, 808

for services to American vessels .

1074

for salaries, secretaries of embassies and

legations..

77,808

for interpreters to legations

77,809

for interpreters to consulates .

1074

for steami launch, Constantinople

1075

adjustment of salary for mission to Persia . 1033

for student interpreters, China; selection

and service .

78, 809

leave of absence extended, minister to

Venezuela

1033

for clerk hire, Spain

78 , 809

for contingent expenses .

78,809

dispatch agents .. printing in Department of State

78,809 78,809

loss by exchange .

78, 809

for steam launch, Constantinople . for buildings, China and Japan..

78, 809 78,810

for improving legation grounds, etc.,

Japan

810

for Cape Spartel light .

79, 810

for life-saving testimonials

79, 810

for extradition expenses

79, 810

Diplomatic Officers,

appropriation for payment to heirs of ... 79, 811

for bringing home remains of, dying

abroad ..

79,811

duties of, in respect of patent applications . 1226

Director of the Census,

to furnish copies of census records to States,

etc

768

Director of the Geological Survey, appropriation for, clerks, etc

454, 1117

Director of the Mint ( see also Mints and Assay

for expenses, neutrality act . for unforeseen emergencies . for heirs of officers dying abroad . for widow of Alfred E. Buck

79, 810 79,810 79,811
811

Offices ),

appropriation for, examiner, assayer, etc. 140,874

for freight on bullion and coin".

140,875

for contingent expenses .

140,875

for children of Thomas T. Prentis

811

for bringing home remains of officers . 79, 811 .

for examinations, etc for incidentals ...

140, 875 140,875

INDEX .

2085

Director ofthe Mint-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for collecting statistics of

precious metals ...

140, 875

annual report 1901 , ordered printed ..

1770

report on production of the precious metals,

1900, ordered printed

1769

Directories, D. C., purchases to be allowed in accounts ...... 562

Disability Pensions,

construction of former act .

750

Disappearing Gun Carriages,

tests, before adopting

307

Disbursing Officers, War Department,

allowance of credits for losses, etc. , war

with Spain ...

956

Discharges, Army,

certificates to be issued in lieu of lost

629

effect of final honorable discharge on pre-

vious service

750

conditions

750

Discharges in Bankruptcy,

additional grounds for refusal .........

797

obtaining property by false written state-

ments ..

797

concealingfinancial condition by destroy-

ing books, etc

797

fraudulently transferring property, etc. ,

within four months ..

798

previous voluntary bankruptcy within

six years ..

798

refusing to obey orders of court, etc ..

798

criminal and legal liabilities not released

by ....

798

Discriminating Duties,

on Cuban vessels and goods suspended ... 2013

Discriminations, Interstate Commerce,

penalty for giving, etc

847

Discussions of Congress, deficiency appropriation for index of .... 580

Diseases,

aliens having loathsome or contagious, ex-

cluded admission

1214

Disinterments, D. C.,

notice to Commissioners of judicial

534

Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr.,

proclamation establishing

1995

Dispatch Agents, appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

service...

78, 809

deficiency appropriation for rent, New York 1032

Distilled Spirits,

leakage allowance extended to all, in

bonded warehouses

770

Distillers, D. C.,

license tax on

627

Distinctive Paper, National Currency, appropriation for

448, 1110

Distinctive Paper, United States Securities,

appropriation for, etc

448, 1109

deficiency appropriation for .

6, 1037

District Attorneys,

appropriation for salaries .

475, 1141

for regular assistants .

475, 1141

limit removed, Illinois northern dis-

trict

1141

for special assistants

475, 1141

deficiency appropriation for special assist-

ants

32, 1075

for salaries, etc.

579

to institute proceedings against carriers

not filing tariffs, etc

848

District Courts,

appropriation for judges......

169, 905

for expenses of judges outside of dis-

tricts

476, 1141

District Courts-Continued.

Page.

clerks to keep bankruptcy dockets and in-

dexes; fees; inspection ..

800

concurrent jurisdiction with circuit courts

in immigration cases .

1220

District Judges,

appropriation for salaries

16, 905

deficiency appropriation for increase in

salaries

1064

additional, authorized , Minnesota district . 795

New York southern district

805

salaries increased

825

District ofColumbia ( see also Taxation, District of Columbia ) ,
appropriation for expenses ( half from Treas-

ury, half from District revenues ) . 590, 956

for general expenses, executive office . 591 , 956

penalty for obtaining offices, etc. , by

money, etc.....

591

penalty for perjury extended to inves-

tigations before Commissioners .

$591

for assessor's office .....

592,957

forexciseboard ; liquor-license receipts . 592, 957

liquor-license receipts to be credited

to

957

for personal tax board

957

for collector's office...

592, 958

for auditor's office ..

592, 958

differences in settling accounts

592

application to Comptroller as to ac-

counts

592

signature on all disbursements ..

592

for city solicitor's office ....

592

for corporation counsel's office ..

958

for sinking-fund office

593, 958

for coroner .

593, 958

for market masters, etc

593, 958

for sealer of weights and measures. 593, 958

for engineer's office .....

593, 958

inspector of gas and meters .

959

for special-assessment office

593, 959

for street-sweeping office

593, 959

for board of examiners, steam engineers. 594,

959

payment of temporary employees, etc. 594, 959

detailed statement of employees quired in annual estimates
for insurance department
for surveyor's office.. for free public library for contingent expenses .
detailed report required ... restriction on use of horses, etc. not to be used for fire insurance stable expenses .. rent

re594
594, 959 594, 959 594, 960 595, 960
595 595, 960
960 595, 960 595, 960

collecting personal taxes judicial expenses .... coroner's, etc. , expenses .
general advertising repairs, market houses .
enforcing game and fish laws .. register of wills's office expenses . surveyor's office expenses

595, 961 595 , 961 595, 961 596, 961
596 596, 961
596 596

for extending permanent system of high-

ways

596, 961

for assessment and permit work

596, 961

for work on streets and avenues ; sched-

ules

596, 961

streets paved with Belgian blocks not

to be improved.......

962

order to beobserved , etc.; estimates . 596, 962

for paving specified streets

597

contracts for asphalt pavements .... 597,962

2086

INDEX .

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page. District of Columbia-- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for grading streets, etc ... 597, 962 appropriation for removing snow and ice,

for condemning streets, etc.

597,962

1902 .

2

for opening alleys ; balance available . 597 , 962 | for clearing Potomac River of ice

37

for plats, suburban subdivisions ..

597,962

for public buildings and grounds .

151,886

for county roads, construction, etc 597,962

for court of appeals .

170,905

for repairs, streets, etc

598,964

for supreme court judges .

170.906

for repairs, county roads for bridges for Massachusetts avenue bridge
for Aqueduct Bridge

598,964 598,964
598 598

for Bureau of Standards; laboratory

422

for municipal building

429

for Zoological Park .

440, 1102

for improving, etc. , fish ponds .

1106

time extended and cost increased, Po-

tomac River highway bridge

598

for Freedmen's Hospital; new building. 1113

for Insane Asylum....

457, 1120

for Connecticut avenue bridge across

for Columbia Deafand Dumb Institution . 457,

Rock Creek; contracts

964

1120

for survey, etc. , Anacostia River flats

599

for Howard University ...

457, 1121

for sewers; constructing, etc .. use of balances

599, 964 600

for burial of indigent soldiers . for Providence Hospital ...

464, 1128 467, 1132

for fencing James Creek Canal ; lease of

space

600

for Garfield Hospital .. for repairs, court- house

467, 1132 473, 1139

for streets, cleaning, etc .; contracts ... 600 , 965

for removing snow and ice ..

600, 965

for district attorney, fees..

475 , 1141

for additional assistant assessors, clerks,

for disposal of city refuse. for parking commission

600,965 600, 965

etc., personal-tax appraisers ...

622

for expenses of enforcing regulations for

for harbor and river front

600, 965 !

Grand Army encampment ....

748

788888

for bathing beach ; receipts .. floating baths ...

600, 965 965

for extra clerks, assessor's office, on ar-

rears of taxes ..

737

for public scales ; pumps

601,965

for redeeming certain certificates of

for electrical department .

601,966

board of audit, etc..

for lighting expenses...

601, 966

for naval hospital, new building

1190

for Washington Aqueduct . for filtration plant ..

602, 967 602, 967

for statues, etc. , of Pulaski and Von

Steuben ....

908

for city reservoir, etc .. for Rock Creek Park ..

602, 967 deficiency appropriation for insurance de-

603, 967

partment ..

11

for public schools .. for instruction of deaf and dumb.
for police department ... for fire department ..

603, 967 606, 971 606, 971 607, 972

for surveyor's office .

11

for public schools .

11, 93, 560, 1043

for free public library ..

11

for expenses, justices of peace

12

for health department ...

608, 973

for lunacy writs

12, 562, 1043

for reports, court of appeals for police court ... ....... for defending suits in claims .

974 609,974 609, 975

for tax certificates for fire department for health department

93 93, 561, 1043
94, 1044

for lunacy writs

609,975

for sweeping, etc. , streets

94, 1042

for justices of the peace.

609,975

for Board of Children's Guardians .

119,

no extra pay for acting in police

court

609

for coroner's office ...

562, 1044 560, 1042

notarial fees to be turned in .

609

clerk of supreme court, salary fixed .. 609

repeal of appropriation for court of

for contingent and general expenses . 560, 1042

for streets, electric lighting .

560

for militia...

560

appeals reports . for interest and sinking fund

609 610,975

for naval militia for police

560 560, 1043

interest rate on judgment not altered . 610

for electrical department ..

561 , 1042

use of surplus for redeeming bonds,

etc

975

for emergency fund

610, 975

for support of convicts out of the Dis-

for telegraph and telephone service ..

561

for police court ..

561

for indexing Code

561

for defending suits in claims .

561

trict

610,975

for court-house

610,976

for jail

610, 976

for reformatories and correctional insti-

for support of prisoners for paying judgments for Washington Asylum . for Freedmen's Hospital

561 561, 1043 562, 1043 562, 1044

tutions ...

610,976

for Garfield Hospital ..

562

for board of charities

610, 976

isolating ward

1044

for medical charities .

612, 977

for filtration plant

562

for care of children, etc.

612, 978

for increasing water supply .

563

for temporary homes ..

613, 979

for court-house, repairs

576

for support, etc. , of insane

613, 979

for fuel

774

for relief, etc., of poor .

614, 979

for municipal building

1039

for militia expenses ..

614,979

for Hall of Records, site ..

1039

for extending high-service water distri-

bution .

615

preliminary plans ; limit of cost, etc.. 1039

for assessor's office ..

1042

for water department

615,980

for personal-tax board

1042

limit on requisitions

615, 981

for judicial expenses .

1042

street extensions wholly from District

for W. C. Dodge .

1042

revenues ; advances .

616, 981

for bathing beach ..

1042

advances from Treasury; reimburse-

for witness fees .

1043

ment

616, 981

for Industrial Home School

1044

INDEX .

2087

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for foundling hospital..
for alleys...
for Adams Mill road, damages . for deporting nonresident insane .
for jail....... alley, square 189, abandoned

1044 1044 1044 1044 1044
789

apportionment of appropriations to pre-

vent deficiencies ordered .

561

anatomical board for distribution of dead

human bodies

173

duties and powers

173

arrangement of estimates; proposed

changes .

616

assessment against Kall tract for benefits ,

canceled .

805

automatic car couplers, etc. , provisions

extended to ..

943

board of equalization and review, taxes,

continued .

739

bridges, repairs to aqueduct, authorized .. 751

court of appeals, salaries of justices in-

creased

825

dead human bodies, distribution to med-

ical schools, etc.

174

traffic in, prohibited ; penalty.

175

deeds affecting lands in, acknowledged

before notaries public in Porto Rico .

and Philippines valid

88

directories, purchases permitted

562

dog regulations amended ..

547

electric wires, extension for Masonic fair

authorized

738

exempted from taxation ; Daughters of

American Revolution property,

square 173

907

incorporations ; Association of Military

Surgeons of the United States

784

Eastern Star Home

60 .

General Education Board

768

Society ofthe Army of Santiago de Cuba . 661

Masonic Mutual Relief Association, char-

ter modified ...

923

National Florence Crittenton Mission, charter amended
interment of Marie Irene Donaldson and
daughter permitted juries to be drawn in 1902 .
under old laws to serve out their terms. jurors; error in Code corrected land released from alien forfeiture pur-
chased by George W. King ....

824
908 2
735 735
1360

lunacy proceedings restored to former prac-

tice ..

1043

act to change, repealed ..

1043

minors not permitted in billiard rooms,

etc. , connected with barrooms .

202

monument to Benjamin F. Stephenson

permitted in Washington

740

municipal building, site and construction

authorized

321

permits for temporary use of streets by rail-

roads, Grand Army encampment .. 743

playgrounds authorized in Monument

Grounds, etc

1122

privies authorized under temporary per-

mits

74

penalty for violations .

74

purchase of square 143 for hall of records

authorized

1212

real-estate taxes for 1903 not payable till

May, 1903 ..

739

refund of liquor-license taxes 1893

284

payment .

284

District of Columbia- Continued.

Page.

regulation of production and trade in

viruses, etc

728

regulations of height of buildings modified ; allowance for intersections .... 1022

reservations may be used for Grand Army encampment
return from President requested of bill to prevent desecration of graves, etc ..
sales of real estate for arrears of taxes . securing site for addition to post-office au-
thorized Seward Place to be known asSeward Square

749
1766 632
1211 1224

street railways; Anacostia and Potomac River Company may extend

Eleventh street line

731

Metropolitan line ; switching on old Six-

teenth street allowed

731

Washington and Gettysburg line ; time

of construction extended .

731

may use highway bridge .

599

time extended for constructing, etc. ,

East Washington Heights Company 636

use of Aqueduct Bridge ; conditions ..

781

supreme court, salaries of judges increased 825

tax arrears, penalty prior to July 1 , 1899, reduced to 6 per cent

to be paid by December 31 , 1902 ..

34

taxation of personal property, assessment,

etc

617

taxation of real estate .

616

taxes, license....

622

taxes payable in May installments; penalty for delinquencies . 33

telephone wires within certain area to be

put underground

393

approval of underground conduits

393

poles permitted in alleys, etc

394

temporary permits during construction . 394

fire alarm and police wires to have free

use of conduits

395

title to lot 1 , square 1113, released to Jo-

hanna C. Block ...

1269

typhoid-fever cases to be reported to health

officer

3

penalty for violation ; prosecutions .

3

Washington Gaslight Co .; hours of labor-

atory changed .

63

District of Columbia, Code Amendments,

justices of the peace reduced to six ..

520

justices of the peace forbidden to practice

law..

521

removal of causes stricken out

521

writs of execution authorized ; judg-

ments in force three years..

521

affidavit in replevin , description added

to

521

agent or attorney of party may ask for

commission to take testimony

521

execution in case of inability

5: 1

appellant's attorney to be notified of

filing appeal.,

521

other process, added as to levying prop-

erty; costs

521

dockets, etc. , of retiring or deceased jus-

tices ..

521

pending present actions ..

522

police judges to hold office until succes-

ors appointed ....

522

service of acting ; pay omitted

522

supreme court jurisdiction , etc. , under or-

ganic act continued .......

522

officers; Potomac Flats case continued . 522

special panel jurors examined on their

voir dire ...

523

2088

INDEX .

District of Columbia, Code Amendments- C't'd . supreme court; appeals from justices of the peace modified exceptions in criminal court .. partition decrees; accounting to cotenants
process against infants at law or equity . service against non compos defendants
at law or equity

Page. 523 523
523 523
523

entering judgment by default after pub-

lication ; assigning counsel to absent

infants ...

523

proceedings against unknown parties ... 524 authority over lunatics and drunkards

transferred to equity court

524

probate court to enforce rendition of in-

ventories, etc.

525

two deputy registers of wills author-

ized; duties

526

proceedings against unknown heirs, etc. 526

publication of substance of issues, etc. ,

in will trials ..

526

jury provision, trials other than wills,

omitted .

526

costs applied to any proceedings .

526

effect of final order or decree

526

report before sale of real estate to pay

debts, etc

527

sale or exchange of executory devise in

infant's interest

527

lease of infant's estate when entitled to

only a part .....

527

mortgagefor infant's maintenance .

527

power over lunatics and drunkards re-

pealed ....

527

clerk of supreme court may appoint neces-

sary employees ...

527

fees in probate court to be paid register

of wills

527

discretion of court as to fees of poor

suitors ..

527

fees to be paid in advance ..

527

fees for acknowledgments omitted

527

payment of balance due from the United

States ....

527

notifying district attorney of divorce

proceedings, etc., omitted ..

527

coroner to be appointed by Commissioners . 527

jurors exempt on serving thirty days ............. 528

court of appeals, crier and messenger au-

thorized ..

528

abatement ; proceeding to judgment permitted on failure of heir, etc. , to

appear .

528

account; affidavit as to facts, excepting to

auditor's report .

528

administration ; description of estate for,

repealed ..

528

creditor's lien on real and personal es-

tate of deceased domiciled else-

where ..

528

special bond where consent is filed ..

528

any party interested may apply for ad-

ditional bond, etc. , of executor

528

notice of application for..

528

exemption of administrator or executor

of lawful distributions ..

528

limitation as to actions on bonds ..

529

additional exceptions to assets ..

529

limitation of claim against sureties of ex-

ecutors and administrators

529

executors, etc. , may not bring suits for injuries to reputation of decedent .. 529

additional seal not required for affidavits

before notaries public .....

529

District of Columbia , Code Amendments-C't'd. administration ; restriction on claims to be allowed repealed ........... rendering subsequent accounts

Page.
529 529

revoking letters on failure to account,

discretionary ..

529

allowance for funeral expenses reduced . 529

filing list of debts repealed ....

530

no distinction between whole and half

blood transferred to personal-estate

distribution

530

aliens ; real estate not permitted corporations having over 50 per cent owners 530

amendments may be allowed in all judicial

proceedings .

530

arbitration; exception in case of infants,

etc

530

assignment ; suit upon bond of executor,

etc

530

attachment; form of undertaking to avoid. 530

on property in hands of executor, etc. 530 sale of partnership interest stricken out . 530

condemnation of land; abandonment in

reasonable time

530

deeds ofreal property ; estate by will added . 531

release of dower .

531

officers who may make acknowledgments out of District ; certificates .. 531

acknowledgment in foreign courts

531

officers of corporations to sign

531

take effect on delivery; as to creditors,

from record

531

acknowledgment of bonds and contracts 531

effect of " covenant"

531

implied covenants provision stricken out 532

interests which may be conveyed .

532

acknowledgments prior to adoption of

Code recognized .....

532

acknowledgments before other officers

out of District recognized ....

532

acknowledgment of dower stricken out . 592

record as evidence ..

532

effect of recorded defective, etc. , deeds . 532

executed before adoption of Code .

532

effect of mortgages and deeds of trust... 532

made by mortgagee or trustee, pass ab-

solute title

532

record of mortgages and deeds of trust.. 532

assignment and release sections repealed 532

devisees of deceased mortgagees

532

appointment of new trustees modified.. 532

terms of sale under mortgage, modified . 532

articles on injunction against sales, and

bids of debtors, etc. , repealed

533

deeds of chattels ; limit of price at sales... 533

recorder ofdeeds ; limitation on employees'

salaries

533

transfers to collector of taxes repealed.. 533

instruments which may not be recorded . 533

forms of conveyance modified ..

533

notaries public ; powers ..

533

corporations; provisions as to real-estate

business

533

liability for failing to submit reports ... 533

limit on loans to stockholders

533

limit of power of justice of peace to sell

perishable property for debts due

carriers

534

salary of insurance commissioner in-

creased

534

officers of insurance companies to report. 534

insurance application to be furnished

with policy

534

cemetery disinterments to be notified to

Commissioners .

534

INDEX .

2089

District of Columbia, Code Amendments- C't'd. corporations; street railways to remove tracks not used as required by charter
savings banks requirements modified beneficial associations, false representa-
tions for restoration to membership; penalty . forfeiture appeal, stricken out injunction against foreign ...

Page.
534 534
534 534 534

offenses against property; injury to elec-

trical appliances, etc ..

534

restitution of value of stolen property

535

punishment forfailingtodeliverwills, etc. 535

imprisonment for minor false pretenses

increased ....

535

recording false deeds, etc.

535

stealing, etc. , books of the District..

535

offenses against public policy; lottery sen-

tences increased

535

offenses against morality; seduction by

teacher of pupil over 16 .

535

harbor regulations modified

535

bass fishing closed season reduced .........

536

fishing nets, etc. , illegally used to be con-

fiscated and sold .......

536

criminal procedure; peremptory challenges

allowed District ..

536

depositions of witness out of the District 537

city solicitor to be styled corporation

counsel

537

prosecutions in police court extended to

fines .

537

descents; illegitimate children of non com-

pos mother..

537

equalizing advancements

537

escheat modified ..........

537

divorce; disposal of pending petitions .

537

care of children ..

537

husband's appeal from alimony stricken

out .

537

ejectment; proceedings against parties ex-

tended..

537

pleading section stricken out .

537

bar to recovery by outstanding legal title . 537

action by mortgagor repealed ......

537

discretion of court as to several judg-

ments

537

period of accounting for mesne profits

extended

537

interest of plaintiff in property

538

assessment of improvements modified .

538

view by jury stricken out

538

estates, of executors or trustees, construed . 538

provisions applicable to personal prop-

erty

538

evidence; provisions for taking depositions

de bene esse modified ..

538

for oral depositions .

540

commissions from out the District ..

540

testimony of deceased or insane party.... 540

testimony of persons convicted of crime

may be admitted ..

540

proof as to credibility of witness whose

statements differ from his testimony. 540

execution ; lien extended to equitable in-

terests

540

fieri facias levied on all legal estates .

540

levies extended to equitable interests in

chattels .....

541

appraisement where not otherwise pro-

vided ...

541

attachment on patents omitted .

541

attachment on property in hands of ex-

ecutor or administrator

541

District of Columbia, Code Amendments-C't'd. Page.

execution; patent - rights attachments

stricken out ...

541

service, in case of death , etc. , of marshal

or coroner.

541

probate court fees modified ..

541

proceedings against married women strick-

en out .

542

usury provision modified .

542

credit of unlawful interest on principal

debt ....

542

jail, salary of warden increased ..

542

limitation when judgments may be en-

forced modified .

542

enforcing liens on equitable interests .

542

limitations on right to enter suit after re-

moval of disability

542

suits against decedents' estates to be

brought in two years .

542

foreign judgments, bar to coincide with . 542

ratification of debt by infant

542

mandamus; extension of time for plead-

ings

543

marriage; age of consent to render void.. 543

form of license modified

543

change of name, provision for, modified.. 543

publication required

543

negotiable instruments; limitation of effect

of Code

543

effect of legal holidays .

543

verbal corrections ...

543

pleadings; joinder of counts of torts and

contracts ...

543

special denial of plaintiff's official char-

acter without oath ..

544

process ; service on agents of foreign cor-

porations having no place of busi-

ness oragent resident in the District. 544

quo warranto, court to fix time for answer. 544

replevin ; addition to affidavit

544

undertaking by plaintiff's agent ..

544

mailing notice to appear...

544

coroner added to marshal as possessor of

property

544

set-offs, between several defendants and

plaintiff, added ...

544

surveyor; description of functions ex-

tended..

544

jurisdiction of Commissioners stricken

out ..

544

examination and approval of subdivi-

sions ...

544

alley regulations modified ..

544

apportionment of excess or deficiency in

recorded measurements

544

duty to adjust lines of buildings

545

alley orders to be filed by Commis-

sioners ....

545

orders obliterating subdivisions, etc. , to

be filed by Commissioners at ex-

pense of petitioner ...........

545

wills; section as to perpetuities, etc. , re-

pealed ..

545

provision as to after-acquired real estate

to relate back to January 17, 1887 .. 545

trust estates omitted from general de-

vises .

545

opening in presence of relatives before

filing

545

repeal provisions; exceptions as to acts re-

lating to religious bodies

546

terms of existing offices not affected unless

specially provided for ....

546

District of Columbia, Commissioners ofthe,

appropriation for salaries..

591 , 956

2090

INDEX .

District of Columbia, Commissioners--Cont'd. appropriation authorized to administer oaths in examinations ..
coroner to be appointed by . duties in connection with new terminal
station ..
use of streets, etc. , for telephone service granted reasonable time to abandon con-
demnation proceedings . jurisdiction over surveyors' records re-
pealed punishment for false swearing, investiga-
tions by..

Page.
592 527 909 393 530 544 591

Dodd, Enoch,

Page.

pension increased

1641

Dodge, A. L.,

payment to .

487

Dodge, Amelia H. ,

payment to

1453

Dodge, George W.,

pension increased ....

1362

Dodge, Pickering,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ........

227

Dodge, Thomas W.,

pension increased ..

1450

statement of all employees to be made with estimates ..
to apportion appropriations to prevent deficiencies ..

Dodge, W. C. ,

594 deficiency appropriation for services .............. 1042

Dodge, William C.,

561 payment to

1277

to cause changes in Aqueduct Bridge for

Dogs, D. C.,

electric railway; conditions ........

781 regulations as to running at large, etc.... 547

to file orders to change alleys, with plat for

record

545

obliterating subdivisions, with plats for

record; expenses

545

to make regulations, etc. , for Grand Army

encampment

748

to order recording plats of subdivisions

544

to report plan for care of delinquent and

dependent children .

978

Divers, Christopher G.,

pension increased ....

1755

Dividends,

declaration of first and final, of bankrupt's

estate ..

800

"Dolphin, " Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

230

"Dolphin," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of....

220

repeal of appropriation for French spolia-

tion claim on account of ..

1070

"Dolphin," U. S. Navy,

claim for damages, collision of, referred to

court of admiralty .

242

Domestic Commerce,

officer or attorney who may swear to

ownership for enrollment

399

Divorces, Alaska,
plaintiff's residence reduced to two years . Divorces, D. C.,
provision for notifying district attorney of proceedings for, omitted...

"Don Juan d'Austria," Spanish Battle Ship,

944 mast from, donated to Alabama ...........

304

Donaldson, Marie Irene,

interment of, and daughter, permitted in

527

District of Columbia

908

cases prior to effect of Code to be com-

Donne, Daniel,

pleted

537 pension increased

1411

husband's right to appeal from alimony

Donohoe, Timothy,

order, repealed ..

537 pension increased .

1540

Dixon, Charles, pension increased...

Doorkeeper, House of Representatives, 1382 appropriation for, assistants, etc. ..... 126,860

Dixon, Ill.,

Dorman, Ephraim, D.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

pension increased .

1368

ing site..

1038 Doss, Annie E. ( widow) ,

purchase of public building site author-

pension .

1649

ized

1207 Dossett, Tenn.,

Dixon, J. B., payment to ..

bridge authorized across Clinch River at.. 793
487 Dothan, Hartford and Florida Railway Com-

Dixon, Martha L.,

1

pany,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211 may bridge East Saint Andrews Bay, Farm-

Dixon, William,

dale. Fla ..

72

pension

1582 Dougan, William A. ,

Dixon, William H.,

pension increased ..

1688

pension increased .

1396 Dougherty, Daniel,

Doane, Mary L. (widow),

pension .

1566

pension increased ..

1431 Dougherty, John R. ,

Dobbins, Rebecca (widow) ,

pension

1700

pension Doberrer, John,

1264 Douglas, John,

deficiency appropriation for .

583

pension increased ..

1669 "Dove," Brig, Bartlett, Master,

Doboy Bar, Ga., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 337

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of....

999

Document Room, House of Representatives,

"Dore, " Brig, Goodhue, Master,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

payment of French spoliation claim on

ants, etc...

126,860

account of..

226

Document Room, Senate,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, etc ....

121 , 855

Documentary Stamps,

time for redeeming, extended to July 1 ,

1904 ...

506

Dover, N. J.,

appropriation for army powder depot . 458, 1121

for public works, navalpowder depot . 677, 1189 Dover, Tenn. ,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery

277

INDEX .

2091

Dower, D. C., proceedings for release of.

Page. 531

Dowery, Anne (widow),

pension increased .

1429

Downing, Benjamin H. ,

pension increased .

1623

Downing, John,

pension increased ..

1716

Downing, Mary S. (widow),

pension increased .

1442

Downing, R. F., and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims; payment
Downing, Sheldon and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment
Downing, W. G., payment to..
Downs, William W., pension increased .

764 764 488 1749

Doyle, John, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Doyle, Thomas, pension increased .
Drake, James C., payment to
Drake, John M., pension increased ..

212 1656 238 1656

Draper, Benjamin F. ,

pension ..

1291

Dravosburg, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Monongahela River between West Elizabeth and . 497
Drawbacks,

provisions for, on articles for Philippines .. 54

Dresden, Germany, appropriation for consul-general at..

81, 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

Drexel, Morgan and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment 764

Druggists, D. C. ,

license tax on

623

Drunkards, D. C. ,

authority over incapacitated , transferred

to equity court

524

restoration of property on reform

525

Dry Docks, Navy, appropriation for completing four ....... 675

Du Barry, Helen A. B. (widow ),

pension increased .

1446

Dubernat, John A. ,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of; proof.....

219

to administrator of widow of

1080

Dublin, Ireland,

appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Dubuque, Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

9

Duckworth, Calvin,

pension

1508

Dudley, Charles C.,

pension increased .

1332

Duffy, Blanche,

pension ..

1358

Duffy, George M.,

pension increased .

1699

Dugan, Cumberland,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Dugan, Peter,

pension increased .............

1452

Dugdale, William,

credit in postal accounts, for fraudulent

money orders ..

1605

Dugger, William L., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 214

Duling, Fletcher, pension .
Duluth Canal, suspended-car transfer authorized across ..
Duluth, Minn., appropriation for improvement of harbor.
for fish hatchery.. deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery . examination of public building directed ;
report may build aerial ferry across Duluth Canal Duluth, Pierre and Black Hills Railroad Com-

Page. 394
3
346, 462 1107 11
326 3

pany,

may bridge Missouri River at Pierre, S.

Dak

658

Dunant, Edward,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223

Dunbar, Henry Gifford,

pension increased .

1243

Duncan, Andrew J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

214

Duncan, J. K. ,

deficiency appropriation for

583

Duncan, J. W.,

payment to..

490

Duncan, Susan E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1615

Duncklee, Lorenzo P.,

pension increased ..

1692

Dundee, Scotland, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

82, 814 86, 818

Dunfermline, Scotland, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Dunkirk, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 335

Dunlap, A. L. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Dunlap, Lizzie ( daughter),

pension .

1504

Dunn, James H.,

pension increased .

1438

Dunn, Margaret (widow),

pension increased ..

1328

Dunning, Edwin M.,

pension increased.

1414

Duplicate Bonds,

to estate of Alexander W. Goodwin ...... 1600

Duplicate Checks, issued to Bishop Gutta-Percha Company . Fannie T. Sayles, executrix, and others. Stanley and Patterson.

1607 1610
1446

Duplicating Processes,

blanks , etc. , to be furnished by Public

Printer

481

Durango, Mexico,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Durant, Edward T. ,

pension increased ..

1731

Durant, Cornelius,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Durbin, Winfield T. ,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

1046

Durham, N. C.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1084

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased, public building... 1205

2092

INDEX .

Durham, William H. ( son) ,
pension ... Durham, James H. ,
pension increased 99
"During the Session,
to mean 121 days to mean 207 days Dusseldorf, Germany, appropriation for consul at

Page. 1566
1643
127 861
83,815

Dustin, Josephine M. (widow), pension .
Duties on Imports (see Customs Duties ) , treaty with Great Britain as to, in Zanzibar ..

1336 1959

D' Wamish, etc. , Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 255 , 992

Dyer, Dennis,

pension ..

1335

Easton, Pa.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized;

nominal site ...

316

appropriation for. Eaton, Nathaniel,
pension increased .

426, 1084 1240

Eau Claire, Wis.,

appropriation for public building............

1084

limit of cost increased , public building... 314

Ebersole, Jacob,

payment to

489

Echo Bay, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Ecuador, appropriation for minister to ................

76, 807

Eddy, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ....

230

Dyer, J. F., payment to
E.
"E. R. Nickerson , " Schooner, deficiency appropriation for claims, seizure of
Eads, Estate ofJames B. , appropriation for purchasing property, South Pass, Mississippi River ......
Eagle City, Alaska, deficiency appropriation for jail
Eagon, Elizabeth J. (widow), pension increased`
Earl, Holmes, payment to..
Earle, J. E., payment to .
Earnest, James O., payment of Court of Claims judgment to..
East Chester Creek, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of ................ preliminary examination of, to be made..
East Hartford, Conn. , bridge authorized across Connecticut River between Hartford and

Edens, Henry W. ,

490 pension increased .

3911

Edenton Bay, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 337

Edenton, N. C. ,

1 discontinued as port of entry

190

Edgar Thompson Steel Works, Limited,

552 claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

Edge, Henry J., alias Jason Edge,

340 pension increased ..

1428

Edgemore Iron Company,

578 claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

1478 Edgington, George W.,

pension increased .

1501

486 Edinburgh, Scotland,

appropriation for consul at

489

for clerk hire ..

82,814 86,818

Edisto River, S. C. , 214 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Edmond, Okla.,

349 building for normal school, allowed ...... 882

380 Edmonds, James A. ,

pension increased .

1272

Edmonds, George W.,

836 pension increased .

1663

East Liverpool, Ohio,

Edmonson, W. J.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

payment to

486

ing site

1039 Edmunds, Catharine F. ( widow),

purchase of public building site authorized 1208 pension increased ..

1418

East River, N. Y.,

Edmunds, Erastus E.,

appropriation for improvement of

349 pension increased .

1618

for lighting .

433 , 1094 Education, Bureau of,

East Saint Andrews Bay, Fla., bridge authorized across, Farmdale, Fla.. 72

East Washington Heights Traction Railroad

Company, D. C.,

time of construction extended ..

636

may lay track on Pennsylvania avenue

bridge ..

636

Eastern Cherokee Indians,

appropriation for compromising suit of... 1000 may prosecute claims in Court of Claims . 996

attorneys; judgment ..

996

Eastern Dispensary, D. C. ,

appropriation for maintenance .

612, 978

Eastern Railroad Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Pa .............. 839

appropriation for Commissioner, etc
for books, etc
for collecting statistics, etc... for documents, apparatus, etc. for rent .

clerks , 161 , 895 161,896 161,896 161,896 162, 897

Education, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, clerks, etc ... .... 161 , 895

Education of Indians,

report to be made by Commissioner of

Indian Affairs .

247

Educational Bequests,

refund of tax on.

406

Edwards, Deborah (mother),

pension ..

1670

Eastern Shawnee Indians,

Edwards, Helen F. M. (widow),

payment per capita from credits and trust

pension increased .

1238

funds .

262 Edwards, Luther G.,

acts of council ratified

262 pension

1488

Eastern Star Home of the District of Columbia,

Egbert, Lila L. (widow),

incorporated ; purpose, powers, etc ......

60 pension increased ..

1579

Eastin, William, pension increased .

Eggs of Game Birds, 1354 importation allowed for propagation ..... 285

INDEX .

2093

Egner, Joseph H.,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

208

Ehmke, Henry,

pension increased .........

1619

Eight Hours, a day's work on irrigation construction ... 389

Eighth Judicial Circuit, additional circuit judge authorized ...... 791

circuit court of appeals, additional regular

terms

329

deficiency appropriation for additional cir-

cuit judge .

1064

Eiselen, Conrad,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Ejectment, D. C.,

parties added to actions for ..........

537

provision as to pleadings repealed .

537

effect of legal title as a bar to recovery.

537

action of recovery before default of mort-

gage, repealed .....

537

discretion of court as to combining judg-

ments...

537

period of accounting for mesne profits, etc. ,

extended ..

537

assessment of improvements made by de-

fendant

538

provision for view ofimprovements by jury 538

El Paso, Tex.,

terms of court ...

69,785

Elderkin, Frances Gurley (widow),

pension increased .

1332

Elderkin, James D. ,

pension increased ..

1273

Eldorado and Bastrop Railway Company,

may bridge Ouachita River, Ark

89

Electric-Light Wires, D. C.,

extension of, Masonic fair at Convention

Hall, permitted ..........

738

Electric Lights, D. C., appropriation for, by underground wires . 602

overhead wires permitted beyond fire

limits ..

602

Electric Plants, Army,

appropriation for, gun and mortar batter-

ies ..

306, 1025

Electrical Department, D. C., appropriation for salaries . for supplies, repairs, etc. for putting wires underground, etc. for extending fire-alarm telegraph for extending police-patrol system for fire-alarm office, improvements .. for replacing worn-out circuits, etc .. for fire-alarm transmitter .....
deficiency appropriation for supplies . for expenses

601,966 601 , 966
601 601 601,966 601 966 966 561 1042

Electricians, Army, appropriation for sergeants ... for master; pay and allowances .
Electricity, D. C., punishment for injury, etc. , to electrical
property Eleventh Light-House District,
appropriation for relief vessel for Ninth and .
for depot, Minnesota Point, Minn .. " Eliza, " Brigantine,
payment of French spoliation claim on account of....

930 930
534
1093 1093
233

Elizabeth City, N. C.,

appropriation for public building ...........

420

limit of cost increased, public building;

change of site

313, 1204

made port of entry

190

Elizabeth, N. J.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1084

deficiency appropriation for public building
limit of cost increased , public building . Elizabeth River, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of...... Elk River, Md.,

1038 1205
350

appropriation for improvement of.. for lighting

351 433 , 1094

Elk River, Tenn., preliminary examination of, to be made.... 382

Elk River, W. Va., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Elkhart, Ind.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1085

Elko, Nev. ,

appropriation for establishing Indian

school

270

Ellen, Mrs. J. E., payment to ..
Ellis and Company, John F., deficiency appropriation for
Ellis Island, N. Y. , Immigrant Station, deficiency appropriation for improvements, etc
for steel pavilion for extension of hospital
for new ferryboat.. for repairs, etc ... for constructing new island .
above payable from immigrant fund .. Ellis, Matthew . ,
pension Ellms, Charles,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1453
560
555 555 1084 1085 1085 1085 1085 1400
233

Elmendorf, Newton W., pension increased .
Elmira, N. Y. ,
appropriation for public building Elrod, James C.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to executrix of..
Ely, Charles S., pension increased .
Embick, Milton A., pension increased ..

1531 420
214 1544 1291

Emergencies,

appropriation for diplomatic and consular,

unforeseen ..

79, 810

for Department of Agriculture, suppress-

ing contagious cattle diseases .

1165

for river and harbor

371

for unforeseen, Navy

663, 1178

deficiency appropriation for, diplomatic

and consular service

5

Emergency Fund, D. C., appropriation for .

610, 975

Emergency Fund, Navy Department,

appropriation for .

663, 1178

deficiency appropriation for

565,

586, 589 , 1050, 1073

Emergency Fund, War with Spain,

reappropriation of balance for Army War

College buildings ...

512

Emergency Hospital, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance..

612, 978

Emerson, Edward, jr., payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230, 230, 232

2094

INDEX .

Emerson, Eleanor (widow), pension increased ........

Page. Engraving and Printing, Bureau of- Cont'd. Page.

1441

appropriation for salaries

435 , 1097

Emerson, John, honorable discharge granted ....
Emery Elevating Carriage, contract price increased

for wages..

435, 1097

1243

for materials .

436, 1097

for rent.....

436, 1097

1027

for custody of dies, rolls, and plates . 448, 1110

Emery, Elizabeth J. (widow ), pension increased .

deficiency appropriation for salaries ..... 8 , 1040

1554

for wages

8, 1040

Emery, George M., pension increased ..

for materials, etc

1309

for rent

9, 28, 588, 1040 9, 1040

Emery, Ida C. (widow), pension increased .
Emery, Nellie M. (widow), pension
Emory River, Tenn. , bridge authorized across, Harriman ......
Employees, Public,

1309 I
1248
499

for counters, detailed from ..

1034

for additional land and new building ... 1039 erection of addition to main building; cost . 1211

land to be acquired for laundry and stable

building

1211

transfer of balances to appropriation for

materials, etc ...

558

temporary, war with Spain work, trans-

Enid and Anadarko Railway Company,

ferred to classified service .

171 granted right of way, Oklahoma and Indian

appropriations not available for perma-

nently incapacitated

171,906

Employment Offices, D. C. ,

license tax on proprietors of..

628

Emporia, Kans. ,

construction of public building, author-

ized

316

appropriation for

426, 1085

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased, public building .... 1204

Territories .

43

Enlisted Men, Army,

appropriation for pay ; longevity .................. 508,929

forextra pay expert riflemen ; allowance. 9:29

for engineer battalions .

508,929

for ordnance department .

508,930

for unattached noncommissioned staff .. 508

for quartermaster-sergeants ....

930

for post commissary-sergeants

930

for electrical sergeants; master electri-

cians added ....

930

Engel, Amelia (widow) , pension ...

for Signal Corps

1428

for Hospital Corps

509,930 509,930

Engineer Department, Army, appropriation for river and harbor im-

provements . for pay of enlisted men

331, 462, 1124 508,929

for pay of officers ..

510, 931

for expenses of depot for purchase of instruments, etc.

518, 940 519, 940

for pay of retired

511,933

double pay for China service

933

for travel; undrawn clothing; interest on

deposits, etc ..

512, 933

for 20 per cent increase ..

512, 933

acceptance of sum for memorial building . 943

pay increased 20 per cent for service be-

for maintenance of school, Washington,

D. C ...

519, 940

for school building .

941

for equipment of troops for services ..

519, 941 519, 941

deficiency appropriation for New York

Harbor

1045

Engineer Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc.

150,885

draftsmen, etc. , to be paid from appropriations for rivers and harbors, etc.;

limit ...

151 , 885

Engineer School, United States Army, appropriation for equipment and mainte-

nance

519, 940

for books, etc ...

519, 940

for buildings, balance reappropriated

519

for completion of building ..

941

Engineers, Army, Corps of,

appropriation for pay of officers; longev-

ity

510, 931

Engineer's Office, D. C. ,

appropriation for salaries, record divi-

sion .

593, 958

for superintendents, inspectors, etc ... 593, 958

for stable expenses ..

595, 960

Engle, Joseph, payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 212

Englesby, Philo F. ,

pension increased ... .

1391

English, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

yond the States .....

512

service as officers in volunteers, Porto

Rico or Philippine troops, to count for continuous service and retire-

ment

512, 934

Enlisted Men, Marine Corps, appropriation for pay of.. increase of, authorized

687, 1199 687, 1198

Enlisted Men, Navy,
appropriation for pay additional men authorized

662, 1177 1177

for outfits .

664, 1178

appointment of warrant officers as ensigns . 1197

Enrollment of Vessels,

officer or attorney authorized to swear as

to ownership for ................

399

Ensenada, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Ensigns, Navy,

appointment authorized of twelve warrant

officers yearly to be.......

1197

Entomology Division, Department of Agricul-

ture,

appropriation for salaries.......

298, 1160

for general expenses

298, 1160

Envelopes, Official, Postal Service, appropriation for..
deficiency appropriation for

117, 1174 23, 1061

Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipo-

tentiary, appropriation for salaries .

76, 807

Enyart, O. M.,

Engraving and Printing, Bureau of,

deficiency appropriation for compiling

appropriation for Director, assistant, etc. 139, 873

for additional vaults

422

Congressional Directory from Continental to Fifty- seventh Congress ... 1068

INDEX .

2095

Epidemics,

Page.

appropriation for prevention of ....... 450 , 1112

Equipage, Army, Camp and Garrison,
appropriation for . deficiency appropriation for .. Equipments, Army, appropriation for
for organized militia.

517, 939 29,586
520, 942 942

Equitable Interests, D. C.,

liens extended to ..

540

judgment liens on, enforced in equity court 542

Equity Court, D. C.,

proceedings in, for change of name ...... 543

Erie Basin, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improving entrance ; con-

tracts .

335, 1125

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Erie, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 335

Ernst, O. H.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

556

Erwin, Burt A. , Erwin A. Burke alias,

pension ...

1405

Erwin, Miss.,

deficiency appropriation for indemnity for

Italian subjects killed or injured

by mob at .

1032

Erwin, Tenn.,

appropriation for fish hatchery ......

1107

deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery . 11

Erzerum, Turkey, appropriation for consul at
Escambia County, Ala. ,

83, 815

may bridge Conecuh River at McGowans

Ferry .

852

Escambia River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 353

Escheat, D. C.,

provision for, modified ...

537

Eshleman, John,

payment to..

489

Essex, Martin,

pension

1408

Estates, D. C., of executors or trustees, construed ....... 538

Estero River, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

"Esther," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

231

Esty, Elvin A.,

pension increased..

1401

Ethnology, American,

appropriation for researches ..

439, 1101

deficiency appropriation for

585

Eufaula, Ala.,

bridge_authorized across Chattahoochee

River between Columbus, Ga. , and. 192

Eulogy,

on President McKinley by Hon. John Hay,

ordered printed.

1774

Eugas, William,

pension increased ...

1273

"Eunice," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

220

Eureka Fire and Marine Insurance Company,

Cincinnati, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1079

Eureka Insurance Company, Pittsburg, Pa. ,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1078

Evans, Allen B., pension increased ....

1676

Evans, F. T. ,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts

1054

Evans, George H.,

pension increased .

1327

Evans, Griffith,

pension increased ..

1447

Evans, Helen M. (mother) ,

pension

1253

Evans, Ira L. ,

pension increased ...........

1621

Evans, James,

pension increased.....

1627

Evans, Jeremiah,

pension increased .

1252

Evans, Marie P., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Evanston, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

427, 1085

Evanston, Wyo. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

320

appropriation for

427, 1085

limit of cost increased , public building ....... 1205

Eveland, John A. ,

pension increased..

1482

Evening Gun, appropriation for firing...
Evens, Annie L. ( widow ), pension increased..
Everett, Lewis P., pension increased ......

520, 942 1368 1742

Everett, Mich.,

modification of improvement of harbor

authorized .

739

Everett, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 463

for light-house, etc. , at Mukilteo Point,

near

765

Everitt, John H.,

pension increased .

1467

Everton, Mary P. (widow),

pension

1648

Everts, Mary A. (widow),

pension ...

1657

Evidence, powers vested in Commissioner of Corporations to obtain
Evidence, D. C. , provisions for de bene esse depositions modified ....
commissions to take oral depositions extension of authority out of District to
order depositions .
admission of prior, by insane or deceased witness
by convicts .
proof as to credibility of witness when testimony differs from statements ..
Evidence, United States Courts,
appropriation for collecting, etc ............. Ewing, Samuel E.,
pension increased ..

828
538 540 540 540 540 540 1141 1573

Examining Surgeons for Pensions, appropriation for fees; examinations .... 62,761

deficiency appropriation for fees and ex-

penses

23, 1059, 1074

report to specify rating and physical con-

ditions ..

62

Excise Board, D. C., appropriation for clerks; liquor license re-

ceipts to be credited to District .. 592, 957

constitution of ........

617

2096

INDEX .

Executions, D. C. ,

Page.

liens under, extended to equitable in-

terests

540

fieri facias levied on legal estates .

540

limit on appraisement of property levied

on .

541

property which may be attached

541

limitation of, attachments on property in

hands of executor, etc

541

provision for, in case of death, etc. , of

marshal or coroner

541

Executive Departments,

general provisions made applicable to Department of Commerce and Labor.. 826

Executive Expenses,

appropriation for

132,866

Executive Journals ofthe Senate,

deficiency appropriation for compiling, etc. 580

Executive Mansion,

appropriation for care, repair, etc ..... 460, 1123

for care, refurnishing, etc

460, 1123

for building offices for President .

460

for extraordinary repair, refurnishing,

etc

460

for fuel; driveways ; conservatory ... 460, 1123

for lighting ..

461 , 1123

for portrait of William McKinley

462

for improvement of grounds ..

1123

for portrait of the President

1123

deficiency appropriation for care, etc ... 12, 1046

for improving, etc. , grounds ..

1046

for fuel

1046

for lighting

1046

for conservatories; reappropriation

1046

Executive Office,

appropriation for secretary to President,

clerks, etc .....

132,866

for contingent expenses .

132, 866

for printing and binding

480, 1146

officer of Signal Corps to be chief of tele-

graph and cipher bureau ; pay, etc. 932

Executive Office, D. C. , appropriation for Commissioners, secre5-91 , 956 tary, etc

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses ...

132, 1031

Executors, of inventors in foreign countries allowed to take out patents payment of unpaid legacy tax by
Executors, D. C. (see also Probate Court ) , additional bond, etc. , may be demanded by any interested party estates of, construed
limit of levy on property in hands of Executory Devises, D. C.,
sale authorized in infants' interests
Exeter River, N. H., appropriation for improvement of ................
Exhibitions, D. C., license tax on

1226 98
528 538 541 527 348 625

Experimental Gardens, etc. , Department of

Agriculture,

appropriations for expenses

293, 1154

Explosion of Artillery Caisson, Chicago, Ill.,

payment of claims for damages

1452

Explosives from Balloons, Launching,

international declaration prohibiting for

five years

1839

"Export," Barge,

deficiency appropriation for owners, col-

lision with naval tug " Traffic " .

569

Export Bills of Lading,

refund of stamp tax on..

406

Extradition,

Page.

appropriation for bringing homecriminals . 79,

810

for fees and costs

79

payment and collection of fees and costs

in

475

Extradition Laws,

made applicable to Philippine Islands......... 806

Extradition Treaties,

with Belgium

1894

with Bolivia

1857

with Chile

1850

with Denmark

1906

with Great Britain, supplementary .

1864

with Servia

1890

F.

Facing Slips, etc. , Postal Service, appropriation for

113, 1171

Fair, B. W. ,

may bridge Savannah River at Sand Bar

Ferry, Ga ......

760

Fair Grounds Company, Richmond, Va.,

payment to

490

Fairbank, Wallace,

pension increased ...

1567

Fairport, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342

Fales, Mary Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

1575

Fall, Orin T.,

pension increased .

1580

Fall River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

332, 1125

Fallon, Bridget (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1714

False Pretenses, D. C. , imprisonment increased for cases of minor . 535

Farallone Islands, Cal.,

appropriation for Weather Bureau cable,

etc., to mainland .

288

Fargo, N. Dak. ,

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1204

Farm Products,

appropriation for extending foreign mar-

kets for...

290, 1151

Farmdale, Fla.,

bridge authorized across East Saint An-

drews Bay at .

72

Farmer, Fanny (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1695

Farmer, Hampton B., pension increased .. 1672 66 Farmer," Sloop,
payment of French spoliation claim on 999 account of..
Farmers' Bulletins,

appropriation for preparing, printing, etc 299, 1161

distribution of Congressional allot-

ment

299, 1161

for additional assistants, etc. , prepar-

ing

299, 1161

Farne, George,

pension increased..

1327

Farnham, Carrie B. (widow),

pension

1474

Farnsworth, Hester A. (mother),

1466

pension ..

Farrell, John E.,

1247 pension ..

Farrell, Michael,

pension increased ....

1318

INDEX .

2097

Faught, Thomas B. , pension increased .

Page. 1712

Faulkner, Mary Jane (widow),

pension increased ..

1350

Fay, Harry C.,

pension increased ....

1559

Fay, Josiah S.,

pension increased .

1588

Feather River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of ..................... 369

Featherstone, William P.,

pension ...

1376

Febiger, George Lea,

estate of, relieved from accountability .... 557 Federal Railroad Company,
may bridge Missouri River, Oacoma, S. Dak. 762

Feeble- Minded Children, D. C., appropriation for maintenance of .... 613, 978

Fehrenback, William E. , pension increased ..

1775

Feldhausen, Joseph,

pension increased .

1721

Fellowes, Nathaniel, payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of....... 218 , 219, 219, 221 ,

224, 228, 228, 230, 231

Fellows, William A. P.,

pension increased ..

1522

Felt, Andrew J., pension ..

1350

Feltus, Henry J.,

pension increased .

1588

Fencing Schools, D. C. ,

license tax on

626

Feneran, Thomas,

pension increased .

1325

Fergus Falls, Minn. , appropriation for public building ..... 420, 1085 limit of cost increased, public building .... 312

Ferguson, Delania (widow) ,

pension increased..

1386

Ferguson, H. V. A. ,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

1057

Ferguson, John, pension increased .
Ferguson, Marcia B. (widow), pension
Ferguson, Ruth H. (daughter) , pension .
Fermented Liquors, internal-revenue tax on, reduced ......
Fernandina, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of waterway from Savannah for quarantine station site ..
Fernou, Berthold, pension increased .
Ferrier, Emma L. (widow) , pension .
Ferris, Edwin, right of United States to lands in Montgomery, Ala. , released to .....

1243 1688 1390
96
353 423 1660 1520
788

Fevre River Indian War, pensions to survivors, etc. , of....
Fidelity Bonding Companies, D. C., personal tax on..
Field Guns and Howitzers, Army, appropriation for, and carriages. .............
Field, James G., restored to active list of Navy
Fields, Caroline, payment to
VOL XXXII, PT 2- -55

399 619 308, 1026 1366 490

Fields, Levi B.,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of....

211

Fields, Sarah O. ( widow) , pension
Fifield, Lillie May (daughter) , pension ..
Fifth Judicial Circuit, term of court of appeals, Atlanta, Ga ..... Fort Worth, Tex Montgomery, Ala..
Fifth Light-House District, appropriation for steam tender ...

1272
1547
548 756 784
430

Filing Devices, Patented,

for official papers, to be furnished by Pub-

lic Printer

481

Filipino Silver Coins,

recoinage authorized ..

710

Filipinos,

proclamation granting amnesty for insur-

rection ...

2014

Filled Cheese,

appropriation for expenses of inspecting,

etc

142 , 877

Filson, Washington T. ,
pension Filtration Plant, D. C.,
appropriation for expenses of establishing
for constructing; cost increased. deficiency appropriation for expenses ... Finch, Silas H., payment to .. Findlay, Ohio,

1645
602 967 562 1453

construction of public building authorized

at..

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

Findley, Jacob,

pension ...

1498

Findley, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1353

Finegan, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1479

Finney, T. C.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ..

214

Fire Department, D. C. ,

appropriation for chief engineer, assistants,

etc

607, 972

qualification for chief

972

for miscellaneous .

607, 973

for contingent expenses

607,973

for new apparatus

607,973

for new buildings, etc...

607, 973

for extending fire-alarm telegraph .

601

for improvements

601

deficiency appropriation for forage . 93, 561 , 1043

for fuel

561 , 774

for contingent expenses

561

for repairs to houses

561

for rent; repairs ....

1043

payment authorized for coal delivered

without inspection ..

1043

Fire Island Inlet, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 335 Fire Protection,

provisions for, public buildings .............

327

Firearms,

sale of, in uncivilized Pacific islands forbidden; punishment .
First Assistant Postmaster-General, appropriation for postal service, office of..

33
107, 1166

for, superintendents, clerks, etc ...... 164,900

2098

INDEX .

First Assistant Postmaster- General-Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for extra force, Spanish war

work

164

for rural free-delivery service .

165, 900

for traveling expenses, D. C.; hire of

vehicle ...

1171

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous 32

report on rural free-delivery service 1900-

1901 , ordered printed .

1769

First Baptist Church, Cartersville, Ga.,

payment to

1599

First Instance Courts, Philippines,

appointment of judges

695

First Judicial Circuit,

terms changed, Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island .. 199

First National Bank, Navasota, Tex.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

1037

First Regiment Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery,

military service recognized

757

Fish and Fisheries, Office of Commissioner of,

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor

827

Fish, Arthur L.,

payment to

238

Fish Commission,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

etc

440, 1102

for employees

441 , 1102

for division of fish culture, office force . 441 , 1102

station employees employees at large. distribution employees .

441 , 1103 443 , 1105
443, 1105

for inquiry division . for biological station , N. C. for statistics division ..

443, 1105 443, 1105 443, 1105

for vessel service

443, 1105

for contingent expenses.
for propagation .... for maintenance of vessels .

443, 1105 443, 1105 444, 1106

for inquiries..

444, 1106

for station, San Marcos, Tex .; completion .
for station, Nashua, N. H..
for fish pond, Washington, D. C ... for station , Northville, Mich..
Put in Bay, Ohio . Leadville, Colo . Neosho, Mo. Bozeman, Mont for two launches ..
for lobster hatchery, Maine coast for station, Erwin , Tenn
Spearfish, S. Dak .
White Sulphur Springs, W. Va....... Duluth, Minn

444 1106 1106 1106 1106 1106 1106 1106 1106 1106 1107 1107 1107 1107

Mammoth Spring, Ark. , establishment of..
for repairs, etc. , "Albatross " deficiency appropriation for biological sta-
tion, Beaufort, N. C ..
for fish hatchery , Tupelo, Miss . Erwin, Tenn

1107 1107
10 10 11

Green Lake, Me Duluth, Minn Gloucester, Mass ..

Woods Hole, Mass . for surfboat for "Albatross'
for repairs, etc for maintenance of vessels . for miscellaneous

559 559 559, 585

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor

827

Fish Hatcheries, appropriation for employees ....

441 , 1102

Fish Laws, State and Territorial,

Page.

forestry agents, etc. , to assist in enforcing . 1115

Fish River, Ala. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376

Fishbaugh, Lewis,

pension increased .

1587

Fisher, Cassius B.,

pension increased ..

1669

Fisher, Fannie T. (widow),

pension increased ..

1751

Fisher, Henry,

pension increased ..

1241

Fisher, J. L.,

payment to

489

Fisher, Rudolph,

fee-simple patent to .

1008

Fisher, W. W. ,

payment to

489

Fishery Industries,

duty of Department of Commerce and

Labor as to

826

Fishing Creek, N. C., appropriation for improvement of.................. 352

Fishing, D. C.,

closed season for bass, reduced

536

confiscation and sale of nets, etc. , used in

illegal

536

Fitch, Alice A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1587

Fitch, Mary J. (widow),

pension .

1398

Fitchburg, Mass.,

appropriation for public building .......

421

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased , public building ........ 1204

Fitzsimmons, Caroline (widow),

pension .

1582

Fire Civilized Tribes of Indians, Commissioners

to Negotiate with,

appropriation for salaries of commissioners ;

powers ..

258,994

enrollment of Creek children ..

258

rules for descent, etc. , Creek changed
for expenses .. employment of clerks in Office ..
for town-site expenses..

Nation , 258
258,994
Indian 259,994 259

supplemental agreement with Creeks rati-

fied .

500

additional agreement with Choctaws and

Chickasaws ratified ...........

641

exclusive jurisdiction of, in allotment mat-

ters, Choctaws and Chickasaws .... 644

Cherokees

718

duties, appraising, allotting, etc. , lands of

Cherokees

717

report for 1901 ordered printed

1769

Five- Fathom Bank, N. J.,

appropriation for light-ship .........

1092

Five-Mile River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Flanagan, Christian J.,

pension increased ...

1639

Flanagan, James,

pension increased .

1755

Flandreau, S. Dak. , appropriation for Indian school ....... 270, 1003
Flathead Agency, Mont., appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 245 , 982
Flathead, etc. , Indians, Mont., appropriation for support, etc., of ................ 255, 992 deficiency appropriation for support ... 575, 1058
Flathead Indians, Carlos's Band, appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 255,992

INDEX .

2099

Fleeman, William B. ,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 214

Fleming, Abel,

pension increased ..

1621

Fleming, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1702

Fleming, W. C. ,

payment to .

490

Fler, John,

pension increased..........

1524

Fletcher, J. W.,

payment to ..

490

Fletcher, John W. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to. 216

Flinn, William,

pension increased....

1577

Flint, Mich.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

Flint River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of......

353

Florence, Ala.,

deficiency appropriation for public-build-

ing site

1039

purchase ofpublic-building site authorized . 1208

Florence, Italy, appropriation for consul at
for clerk hire ..............

84, 816 86, 818

Florence, S. C.,

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site.....

317

appropriation for

426, 1085

"Florence Whelan," Schooner,

deficiency appropriation for owners, colli-

sion of wherry .

569

Florida,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

162, 898

for dredge, etc. , for river and harbor im-

provements

339

for purchasing quarantine-station sites

from .

423

sale of Seminole Agency lands

1024

settlement of mutual claims, Florida In-

dian war..

235

payment of balance.

235

Florida Brewing Company, refund of revenue tax to, authorized ..... 1612
Florida East Coast Railway Company,

improvements of Biscayne Bay authorized

by .

338

Florists, D. C.,

license tax on

628

Flower, Charles H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

children of .

210

Flowers, William C., pension ..

1289

Flushing Bay, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334 preliminary examination of, to be made .. 380

Flying Horses, etc. , D. C.,

license tax on

626

Flynn, David, pension increased..

1756

Fog- Signals, appropriation for expenses

432, 1094

Fogg, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

1452

Fogle, Deborah J. (widow) ,

pension .

471, 1707

Folding Room, House of Representatives,

appropriation for superintendent, folders,

etc

126, 860

Folding Room, Senate, appropriation for superintendent, ant, folders, etc.
Folds, Elizabeth M. (widow), pension .
Foley, Jane R. , payment to

Page. assist-
123, 856
1287
490

Folsom, Leighton J. ,

pension increased .

1249

Fond du Lac Indians, Minn.,

appropriation for supplies furnished to , by

merchants

269

Fond du Lac, Wis.,

construction of public building authorized

at

320

appropriation for

427, 1085

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1206 Food Products,

appropriation for investigating preserva-

tives; foreign tests, etc.

296, 1158

penalty for labeling with false place of

origin ...

632

Foot and Mouth Disease of Animals,

appropriation for eradicating ..

1165

power to suppress, transferred to Secre-

tary of Agriculture ....

791

Forage Plants,

appropriation for investigations, etc ... 292, 1154

Forcht, Henry,

pension increased ....

1548

Foreign Commerce,

investigation, etc. , of corporations engaged

in

828

Foreign Commerce, Bureau of,

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor; consolidation .....

827

Foreign Corporation, D. C.,

injunction against, for not complying with

law ..

534

service on, having no officer nor place of

business in District ....

544

Foreign Intercourse ( see Diplomatic and Consular Service ) .
Foreign Judgments, D. C., bar of limitations to coincide with ....... 542

Foreign Mails, appropriation for superintendent .. for transportation .

165, 900 116, 1173

for mails to Tahiti ; Oceanic Steamship

Company

116, 1173

for pier transfers, New York and San

Francisco

116, 1174

for balance due foreign countries . for delegate to Postal Congress

116, 1174 1174

deficiency appropriation for balance due

foreign countries

1061

Foreign Markets for Agricultural Products,

appropriation for expenses, extending. 300, 1162

Foreign Markets Division, Department of Agri-

culture, appropriation for salaries ..

300, 1162

for general expenses

300, 1162

Foreign Missions ( see Diplomatic and Consular

Service ) .

Foreign Patents,

time extended in which applications must

be made in this country ....

1225

Foreign Steam Vessels,

deficiency appropriation for special in-

spectors ..

1072, 1076

Forest Reserve Lands,

selections on ceded Blackfoot Reservation , Mont. , in lieu of, confirmed .................. . 955

Forest Reserves,

appropriation forexpenses, protecting .. 452 , 1115

for survey of

1118

2100

INDEX .

Forest Reserves-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for protecting ... 1074

agents, etc. , to assist in enforcing State

and Territorial game laws .

1115

bona fide settlers on, allowed two years to

file claims, etc ..

106

proclamation changing boundaries of Big

Horn, Wyo

2004

Medicine Bow, Wyo .

2015

Olympic, Wash Teton, Wyo White River, Colo .

1981 2000 2008

Yellowstone, Wyo .

2000, 2006

proclamation consolidating San Francisco

Mountains, Ariz ..

1991

Teton, Wyo. , and Absaroka, Mont. , with

Yellowstone ..

2030

proclamation establishing Absaroka, Mont . 2027

Alexander Archipelago, Alaska . Chiricahua, Ariz Dismal River, Nebr . Lincoln, N. Mex .... Little Belt Mountains, Mont. Luquillo, Porto Rico ..

2025 2019 1995 2018 2022 2029

Madison, Mont .

2024

Medicine Bow, Wyo

2003

Mount Graham, Ariz .. Niobrara, Nebr

2017 1993

Payson, Utah..

1985

San Isabel , Colo Santa Catalina, Ariz Santa Rita, Ariz . Wichita, Okla ..

1988 2012 1989 1973

proclamation adding lands to Cascade

Range, Oreg ..

1972

proclamation restoring to public domain

part of Washington ...

1969

selection and duties of agents, etc

1115

Forester, Department of Agriculture, appropriation for, assistants, etc

294, 1156

Forestry Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries ..

295, 1156

forgeneral expenses ..

295, 1157

Forked Deer River, Tenn. ,

appropriation for improvement of....

358

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Forrester, Thomas G.,

pension increased ..

1676

Fort Apache Agency, Ariz., appropriation for Indian agent at ........ 245

Fort Belknap Agency, Mont., appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 245, 982

Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak. , appropriation for Indian agent at for support, etc. , of Indians of .

245, 982 256,992

Fort Brady, Mich. ,

deficiency appropriation for rebuilding

barracks

1045

Fort Bridger Reservation, Wyo.,

homesteaders may enter pasture lands on

abandoned; conditions .

283

Fort Buford Military Reservation,

deficiency appropriation for survey of

abandoned

574

Fort Constitution, N. H.,

appropriation for additional land

458

Fort Crawford, Wis. ,

appropriation for military cemetery ... 465 , 1128

Fort Des Moines, Iowa,

appropriation for land, target range .

465

Fort Erie, Canada, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Fort Gibson, Ind. T.,

bridge authorized across Arkansas River,

near

37

Fort Griswold, Conn.,

Page.

donated to Connecticut for public park ... 306

Fort Hall Agency, Idaho,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 245,982

Fort Hall Indian Reservation, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

on ...

256,992

deficiency appropriation for support of In-

dians of...

1058

proclamation opening to entry lands on ; ceded by Shoshones and Bannocks. 1997
Fort Hall Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 250, 986

Fort Lafayette, N. Y., appropriation for public works, naval

magazine

677

Fort Laramie Reservations, Wyo.,

homesteaders may enter pasture lands on

abandoned ; conditions ....

283

Fort Leavenworth, Kans., appropriation for lands for drills .. for penitentiary, construction subsistence ..
clothing, transportation , etc. miscellaneous expenses
hospital supplies salaries
for army general service and staff lege

465
473, 1139 476, 1142 477, 1142 477, 1142 477, 1143 477, 1143 col507,928

deficiency appropriation for penitentiary . 579 Fort McKinney Reservation, Wyo.,
land on abandoned , granted Buffalo , Wyo . 908

Fort Mifflin, Pa.,

appropriation for public works, naval mag-

azine

677

Fort Mojare, Ariz. ,

appropriation for Indian school ...... 270 , 1003

deficiency appropriation for Indian

school

575

Fort Monroe, Va.,

appropriation for wharf; repair, etc... 465 , 1130

for roads, lights, etc ..

465, 1130

for sewer system

465, 1130

for artillery school ..

507,928

Fort Myer, Va.,

appropriation for purchase of land form-

ing roadway.

465

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, Nebr. , sale of portion to Valentine, authorized .. 283

Fort Peck Agency, Mont. , appropriation for Indian agent at .... 245,982 for support, etc. , of Indians of..................... 256.992

Fort Phil Kearny, Wyo.,

monument on site of massacre at, author-

ized

175

Fort Point, Cal. ,

appropriation for fog-signal .............

431

Fort Riley, Kans.,

appropriation for cavalry and field artillery

school

507,928

Fort Sanders Reservation, Wyo.,

homesteaders may enter pasture lands on

abandoned; conditions ....

283

Fort Sheridan, Ill. ,

appropriation for road

465

for military post, additional land

1129

Fort Sherman Military Reservation, Idaho,

appropriation for custodian of abandoned . 454, 1117

Fort Sill Indian Subagency, Okla.,

proclamation restoring land to public do-

main

2026

to be entered by Lawton for cemetery

purposes ...

2026

INDEX .

2101

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla. , right of way granted through, to Oklahoma City and Western Railroad Com-
pany Fort Sill, Okla.,

Page. 821

appropriation for support of Apache pris-

oners

467

Fort Smith, Ark. ,

limit of cost increased, public building ... 311

appropriation for .

424, 1085

deficiency appropriation for jail improve-

ments

579

Fort Smith Military Reservation,

jurisdiction ceded to Arkansas over relin-

quished portion of..

921

Fort Snelling, Minn.,

appropriation for railway siding ...

465

for additional land, target range

1129

deficiency appropriation for railway spur . 1045

Fort Totten, N. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school ..

270, 1003

reappropriation for heating ...

270

Fort Totten, N. Y.,

appropriation for expenses, submarine de-

fense school ...

306, 927

for purchase of materials

306, 928

for special apparatus . for professional books .

306, 928 307,928

for instruction ........

307, 928

for repair shop, torpedo depot .

1025

Fort Worth, Tex.,

circuit court of appeals to hold term at ... 756

terms of court .

69

Fortifications,

appropriation for gun and mortar bat-

teries

305, 1024

for installing range finders.

305 , 1024

for harbor searchlights .

305, 1024

for sites for defenses

305 , 1024

" for battery sites, Cushings Island , Me .. 305

purchases on Cushings Island, Me ... 1024

for preservation and repair ..

305, 1024

donation of Fort Griswold to Connect-

icut

306

for plans

306, 1025

for electric plants ..

306, 1025

for sea walls ..

306, 1025

for submarine mines

306, 1025

for torpedoes for harbor defense ; expend-

itures ..

306, 1025

for Fort Totten, N. Y. , school for marine defense .
expenditures by contract, etc. repair shop, torpedo depot for armament
for finishing seacoast guns .

sub306
307, 1025 1025
307, 1025 307, 1025

for steel for seacoast guns, maximum

price

307, 1025

steel- wire guns

307, 1025

for carriages, seacoast guns

307, 1025

test of disappearing carriages, etc.

307

for electrical apparatus for carriages .. 1025

for mortar carriages ..

307, 1025

for firing mechanism for mortars .

1025

for barbette carriage shields .

1025

for ammunition, reserve supply .. 307, 1026

for rapid-fire guns

307, 1026

for contract guns

307, 1026

for proof of guns.

307, 1026

for armor plates, etc. , for tests .

307, 1026

for ammunition, etc. , for practice ... 308 , 1026

for machine guns .

308, 1026

for range finders .

308, 1026

for equipments, etc

308, 1026

for tools, etc. , battery mechanics ... 308 , 1026

Fortifications- Continued.
appropriation for mountain guns for field guns and carriages .. for field howitzers and carriages

Page. 308 1026
308, 1026

for siege breech-loading rifles ; carriages . 308, 1026

for siege breech-loading howitzers ; car-

riages ...

308, 1026

for sights, fuses, and primers .

308, 1026

for inspecting instruments, etc ................ 308, 1026

for subcaliber tubes, etc. , artillery prac-

tice ...

308

contracts transferred to Bethlehem

Steel Company

308

propositions of Pneumatic, etc. , Com-

pany accepted ...

308

for cast-steel top carriages for mortars .. 1026

for expenses Sandy Hook proving

ground

308, 1026

for Frankford Arsenal, cartridge fac-

tory

309,1027

for Watertown Arsenal, gun-carriage

plant

309

for Watervliet Arsenal, machinery.

309

for Board of Ordnance and Fortifica-

tion

310, 1027

for purchases, etc ..

310, 1027

for civilian member; necessary ex-

penses

310, 1027

for tests, etc.

310, 1027

inquiry as toright to inventions, etc. 310, 1027

for Emery elevating carriage; amount

increased

1027

deficiency appropriation for preservation,

etc

12

material to be of American manufac-

ture

310, 1027

exceptions; imports to be free of

duty ...

310, 1027

Fortune Tellers, etc. , D. C.,

license tax on ; police approval

626

(6 Foscolia,"" British Steamship,

claim for damages, sinking of, referred to court of admiralty
payment of decree .. return requested from President of bill re-
lating to

242 242
1770

Foster, Charles W. ,

pension increased ..

1332

Foster, Emory S.,

pension increased .

1324

Foster, James P.,

pension increased ..

1753

Foster, Samuel B. ,

payment to estate of .

1452

Foster, Thomas G.,

pension ..

1304

Foster, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

229, 231

Foundlings Hospital, D. C., appropriation for maintenance ..

613, 979

deficiency appropriation for fire protection 1044 Fountain City, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

366

Fountain, Horace,

pension increased...

1589

"Four Sisters," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

227

Fourth Arkansas Mounted Infantry,

appropriation for arrears of pay, etc ...... 473

2102

INDEX .

Fourth Assistant Postmaster- General,

Page.

appropriation for postal service, for traveling expenses .. for, clerks, etc ..
Fourth-Class Mail Matter,
provisions for remailing . Fourth of July Claims,
appropriation for paying . deficiency appropriation for . Fowler, George, pension increased .

office of

117, 1174 1175
165 , 901
1176
629 589
1344

Fowler, John E.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses

581

Fox, Edmund P.,

pension increased .

1684

Fox, Joseph W. ,

pension increased .

1756

Fox, Margaret (widow),

pension .

1644

Fox River, Ill.,

dam authorized across, at McHenry .

364

Fox River Navigable Waterway Association,

may dam Fox River at McHenry, Ill

364

Fox River, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of ; dredge 362

66 Fox,"

Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

226

66

"Fox," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of......

224

France, appropriation for ambassador to
for secretary of embassy . for second secretary . for third secretary

76, 807 77, 808 77,808 77,809

France, William H. , pension increased .
Franchises, Philippines, may be granted, for public utility and service; conditions

1738 709

Francis, Horatio N.,

pension increased.

1293

Frank, Emil,

pension increased ...........

1259

Frank, Jack,

payment ofCourt of Claims judgment to ad-

ministrator of

216

Frankford Arsenal, Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation for power plant, ammuni-

tion factory

309

for shop, cartridge factory .

309

for shrapnel shop ....

1077

Frankfort, Germany, appropriation for consul-general at..

81 , 813

for clerk hire...

86, 818

Frankfort, Ky.,

terms of court

58

Frankfort, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

Franking Privilege,

granted Ida S. McKinley .

1237

Frantz, M. A. ,

payment to

488

Frazier, Milton,

pension increased .

1578

Frederica River, Ga., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Frederick, Julius R.,

to be enlisted as sergeant, Signal Corps, and

retired ...

1555

Fredericksburg, Va., appropriation for monument to Gen.

Hugh Mercer at

491

Free Delivery, Rural ( see Rural Free Delivery ) . Page. Free-Delivery System, Postal Service,

appropriation for general superintendent,

superintendents

164,900

for letter carriers

111 , 1170

for new offices ..

111 , 1170

for horse hire, etc..

111 , 1170

for car fare and bicycles.

111, 1170

for mechanics, repairing, etc. , letter

boxes ...

111 , 1170

for marine service, Detroit ; contracts . 111 , 1170

for assistant superintendents ; per diem. 111, 1170

for incidental expenses........

112, 1170

for special-delivery messengers

112, 1170

for rural service .

112, 1170

deficiency appropriation for

32.

576, 590 , 1061 , 1075

Free List, Customs,

admission of pure-bred animals for breed-

ing ..

1023

Freedmen's Hospital and Asylum, D. C. ,

appropriation for subsistence ; salaries .. 612, 977

for rent; expenses .

612,978

for new building ; lease, etc.

1113

deficiency appropriation for subsistence

562

for fuel, etc..

562

for repairs; reimbursing Howard Uni-

versity.

562

for expenses..

1044

Freedmen's Retained Bounty Fund,

covered into the Treasury .

556

Freeman, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

1326

Freeman, Catharine (mother),

pension

1512

Freeman, Frank E.,

pension increased .

1662

Freeman, H. B.,

relief of .

1607

Freeman, Jason E.,

pension increased .

1496

Freeman, Otis R.,

pension increased ..

1421

Freeport, Ill. , appropriation for public building ........ 421

Freiburg, Germany, appropriation for consul at

..... 83, 815

French Broad River, Tenn., appropriation for improvement of ..................... 358

French Spoliation Claims,

appropriation for paying findings of Court

of Claims in ..

217

assigned or owned by insurance com-

panies not to be paid ; exception ... 233

for defense in

473

claim on account of " Dolphin " schooner,

repealed ..

1070

distribution to heirs of Stewart and Barr.. 1080

payment to administrator of widow of

John A. Dubernat .

1080

French, Tempy ( widow),

pension increased ..

1248

French West Indies,

appropriation for relief of destitute citizens . 198

French, Wilson,

pension increased .

1739

Frenchmans Bay, Me., deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing Fresno, Cal.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1203

INDEX .

2103

Frey, James, pension increased .

Page. 1378

Friars, Philippines ( see Religious Orders, Phil-

ippines) . Frier, David A.,
pension increased ..

1316

Fristoe, Richard,

pension increased .

1282

Frost, Fannie ( widow) ,

pension ...

1467

Frost, William S.,

pension increased ..

1561

Fruit Industry,

appropriation for investigating, etc ...... 291

Fuchau, China, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Fuchs, Paul,

pension increased .

1392

Fuel Hucksters, D. C.,

license tax on; description ...

627

Fuel, Lights, and Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for .

449, 1110

deficiency appropriation for .

28, 585, 1072

Fugitives from Justice,

laws for extradition of, extended to Philip-

pine Islands..

806

treaty for extraditing, with Belgium

1894

with Bolivia ..

1857

with Chile .

1850

with Denmark

1906

with Great Britain, supplementary.

1864

with Servia

1890

Fulford, Clara H. , redemption of burned bonds authorized ;
indemnity Fuller, Luman,
pension increased ..

1610 1570

Fullerton, John,

pension increased ....

1736

Fulton, James,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Funchal, Madeira, appropriation for consul at .

84, 816

Funeral Expenses, D. C.,

allowed in settling estates ..

529

Fur Seals (see also Alaskan Seal Fisheries ) ,

appropriation for protecting....

435, 1096

not affected by Alaska game law.

327

Furniture, etc., Public Buildings, appropriation for, and repairs.

448, 1110

deficiency appropriation for

585, 588

Furniture, House of Representatives,

to be under direction of Superintendent of

Capitol

125

Furr, Hester A. ( widow) ,

pension .

1411

Fusselman, George,

pension increased ..

1487

Fyffe, Clifford Neff (widow ) ,

pension increased .

1386

G.
Gabrion, Gilbert G., pension increased .
Gabrion, Isaac, pension increased .
Gaff and Company, T. and J. W. , payment to surviving partner, refund of taxes
Gagan, John, pension increased .
Gage, Thomas E., payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1412 1719 242 1273
228

Gainesville, Fla.,

Page

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site ...

316

appropriation for

426, 1085

Gainesville, Ga.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site.

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208

Gainesville, Tex. , construction of public ized at.
appropriation for " Galen," Ship,

building

author320
427, 1085

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

230

Gallagher, Eliza (widow) ,

pension

1664

"Gallatin," Revenue Cutter,

appropriation for reimbursing officers and

crew for losses, wreck of .....

240

Galveston Land and Improvement Company,

payment to

490

Galveston Ship Channel,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

356, 1127

Galveston, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

entrance; contracts

340

improvement of channel; contracts .. 340, 1126

improvement of channel to Texas City;

modification of contract .

341

channel from inner bar

1126

board of engineers to submit plans for pro-

tection of port, etc.

341

terms of court ..

68

Gamble, Eliza B. ( widow) , pension ..
Gamble, Patrick M., deficiency appropriation for administrator of

1324 559

Game,

appropriation for expenses preventing ship-

ment of illegally killed .....

299, 1161

Game and Fish Laws, D. C.,
appropriation for enforcing . Game Animals and Birds, Alaska,
regulations as to killing, etc .. Game Birds,

596, 961 327

importation of eggs for propagation per-

mitted ..

285

Game Laws, State and Territorial,
forestry agents, etc. , to assist in enforcing . Gammon, Edward M.,
pension increased

1115 1714

"Ganges," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

218

Garbage, etc., D. C. , appropriation for disposing of..
Garber, Uriah, pension increased

...... 600 , 965 1400

Gardner, Henry,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Gardner, Nathan,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 217

Gardner, Paul,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Garfield, late President James A.,

printing ordered of memorial addresses on

Lincon and McKinley

1771

Garfield Memorial Hospital, D. C. ,

appropriation for maintenance; one-half

from District revenues

467, 1132

2104

INDEX .

1

Garfield Memorial Hospital, D. C. - Cont'd . appropriation for additional land ..
for new buildings, etc half from District revenues ..

Page. 467 1132 1132

for isolating ward.......

609, 974

deficiency appropriation for isolating

wards .

562, 1044

Garland, James, pension increased

1710

Garner, John,

pension increased

1294

Garnett, Granville,

payment to executor of .

1697

Garrett, Robert, and Son, claim of, as agents for Northern Pacific

Railroad, referred to Court of Claims ;

payment .

764

Garrett, Thomas G.,

appropriation for services..

478

Garrison, Mary Ann (widow), pension increased

1729

Garrison, O. L.,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

Garrison, Oliver L.,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

Gas and Meters, D. C.,

inspector and assistant to be appointed by

Commissioners

959

Gas Companies, D. C.,

personal tax on

619

Gas, D. C.,

minimum candle power of, reduced .... 602, 967

Gasconade River, Mo., appropriation for improvement of........ 368

Gaskill, Henry W.,

pension increased

1651

Gasparilla Sound, Fla., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Gaspe Basin, Canada, appropriation for consul at
Gasper, Charles, appropriation for
Gassaway, W. L., payment to
Gaston, John, pension increased

85, 816 269 490 1358

Gates, Elizabeth C. (widow) ,
pension... Gates, James N.,
pension increased .

1646 1590

Gatliff, Aaron S. ,

pension increased .

1351

Gauss, Herman, deficiency appropriation for services .. 582 , 1068

General Account of Advances, Navy, deficiency appropriation for reimburs-

ing.

565, 1049

General Education Board, D. C.,

incorporated; scope, etc..

768

General Grant National Park, Cal.,

appropriation for protecting, etc ...... 456, 1119

deficiency appropriation for improvement . 1060

General Land Office (see also Public Lands ),

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc ..

157, 892

for investigations, etc for maps; distribution for preserving records .

158, 893 158,893
453

for furnishing transcripts of records,

etc

453, 1116

for rebinding tract books ..

480, 1145

deficiency appropriation for transcripts

from records and plats ..

1

for maps of United States ..

31

8 222 222 22 2 E222

General Land Office-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for maps of States . 31

for clerks

1054

General Staff Corps, Army,

established ..

830

duties of .

831

detail of officers for

831

term ; temporary assignments

831

return to branch of service from which

detailed .....

831

restriction on further detail

831

Chief of Staff, supervisory powers of..

831

duties, Board of Ordnance and Fortifi-

cation

831

Soldiers' Home Commissioners

831

general officers, not allowed aids-de-camp

and secretaries

831

Chief of Artillery to serve as additional

member

831 , 1021

to have rank, etc. , of brigadier-general . 831

brigadier-generals, number limited

831

to be in effect August 15, 1903 ......

831

Geneva Convention of1864,

convention adapting to maritime warfare

principles of..

1827

Geneva County, Ala.,

may bridge Choctawhatchee River at Mar-

tin Ferry

1225

Geneva, N. Y. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

Geneva, Switzerland, appropriation for consul at ..

... 83, 815

Genoa, Italy, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

83, 815 86, 818

Genoa, Nebr.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 270, 1003 deficiency appropriation for Indian school. 31

Geodetic Association for Measurement of the

Earth,

appropriation for contribution to inter-

national

80, 812

Geological Survey,

appropriation for Director, clerks, etc. 454, 1117

for scientific assistants

454, 1118

for general expenses for skilled laborers, etc. for topographic surveys for geological surveys . for paleontologic researches for investigations, Alaska

455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118
1118

for chemical and physical researches . for preparing illustrations .
for report on mineral resources for report on phosphates . for books, etc for geological maps
for gauging water supply . for survey of forest reserves for rent .

455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118
455 455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118 455, 1118
162, 897

for engraving illustrations .

480, 1146

for printing and binding monographs

and bulletins ....

480, 1146

delivery of documents on hand five

years

1146

deficiency appropriation for . for rent of additional rooms .

31,587 21

for investigations, Alaska ..

for maps ...

for furniture, etc ..

94

for installing electric power.

1057

for safe

1057

for illustrations.

1057

INDEX .

2105

Geological Survey-Continued .

Page.

bulletin on iron-ore deposits Lake Superior

region by, ordered printed

1763

on oil, gas, and coal fields of Texas and

geology of western Gulf coast or-

dered printed ...

1764

bulletins and professional papers ; free dis-

tribution ....

741

detailed estimates to be submitted ..

455

extra copies of reports to Library of Congress .
publications of ; classification of binding . editions of reports; reprints
report on geology, etc. , of Black Hills
region, ordered printed restriction as to water-supply papers re-
pealed . George, Abbie (widow) ,
pension increased .. return of pension bill requested from the
President .

741 741 741
1769
741
1387
1766

George, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

1655

Georges River, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of........................ 348

Georgetown, D. C.,

assigning excess or deficiency in subdivid-

ing squares....

545

Georgetown, S. C.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1204

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made

382

Georgia,

payment to, Spanish war claim ..

487

Georgia and Alabama Terminal Company, may bridge Savannah River, Savannah, Ga . 104

Georgia, Northern Judicial District,

Carroll County transferred from north-

western division ..

42

Georgia , Southern Judicial District,

southwestern division established ..

550

terms of court, Valdosta, etc ....

550

German Emperor,

testimonials by, to James M. Miller, Oliver

D. Norton, and Edwin V. Morgan

may be accepted..

1362

German Evangelical Church, Martinsburg, W. Va . ,

payment to, for property destroyed ...... 234

German Orphan Asylum, D. C.,

appropriation for care of children ............... 613 , 979

Germany, appropriation for ambassador to

76, 807

for secretary of embassy. for second secretary .

77,808 77,808

for third secretary

77, 809

Gerry, Sarah A. (widow), pension increased.
Gershel, Mrs. Alice,
deficiency appropriation for payment to.. Gerzikouski, August,
payment to Getman, Gethro M. , alias James M. Getman,
pension increased ..

1634 571 487 1379

Getty, Elizabeth G. (widow),

pension increased.

1441

Gettysburg National Park,

appropriation for establishing ...

466, 1131

monuments to commemorate Regular

Army troops, authorized ..

838

appropriation for

838

printing of reports of Commission author-

ized

742

Geyer, Rebecca H. (widow) , pension
Ghent, Belgium, appropriation for consul at
Gibbs, Henry R.,
pension ... Gibbs, Thomas H. H. ,
pension increased .

Page. 1528 83, 815 1563 1340

Gibraltar, Spain, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Gibson, Isaac,

pension increased .

1481

Gibson, Theodore, deficiency appropriation for services .....
Gifford, Andrew H., pension increased .

25 1258

Gifford, Sarah E. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1711

Gilbert, Alonzo,

pension increased ..

1687

Gilbert, Ann (widow) ,

pension .

1650

Gilbert, Jennie M. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1722

Gilbert, Lyman A. L.,

pension increased ..

1592

Gillam, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1480

Gilliland, Leath (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1449

Gilman, Daniel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Gilman, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1272

Gilman, Mary E. F. (widow) , pension .

1360

Gilman, Nicholas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

228, 229, 229, 230

Gilman, Nicholas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

ecutor of .

218, 231

Gilmor and Sons, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 221

Gilmore Mary, A. F. (widow),

pension increased.......

1750

Gilpin, Joshua,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

222

Gilsonite, etc., Mineral Locations, Utah,

provisions for, Uncompahgre Reservation

lands

998

Ginn, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of..

216

Girard, Stephen,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Gisborne, Oliver, pension increased ..
Gittings and Smith, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ....
Given, Mabel R., fee-simple patent to ..
Gladding, Nathaniel, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of
Gladstone, Mich. , preliminary examination to be made of harbor .

1229 226 1008 227 379

Glafcke, H.,

payment to

1604

2106

INDEX .

Glasgow, Scotland, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

Page. 82, 814 86, 818

Goldsboro, N. C.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

319

Glass, Rebecca A. (widow),

pension .

1679

Glauchau, Germany, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Glazer, Joanna (widow),

pension increased ...

1755

Glencove, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

appropriation for

427, 1085

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205 Good Conduct Commutation,

deduction from sentences of prisoners, in-

creased

397

restoration of forfeited , allowed ..

397

Glenhaven, Mich.,

"Good Intent," Brig,

appropriation for telegraph, etc., to South Manitou Island storm-warning sta-

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

922

tions..

282 "Good Intent," Schooner,

Glenn, John, pension increased .

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

231

1545

"Good Intent," Vessel,

Globe Mutual Insurance Company, Saint Louis, Mo. ,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

227

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ..

1078

Gloucester, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ...

331 , 1125

deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery . 11

Glover, M. Callie (widow),

pension ..

1284

Goodhue, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

220, 220

Goodrich, Mary J. (widow),

pension

1703

Goodwin, Alexander W.,

duplicate bonds to issue to estate of; in-

demnity bond

1600

Gloversville, N. Y. ,

1 Goodwin, Nathaniel C.,

construction of public building authorized

pension increased .

1324

at

319 Goodwin, Oliver P.,

appropriation for

427, 1085 pension increased .

1249

Gluten,

Goodwin, Theophilus,

appropriation for study of wheat, etc. , as

pension .

1245

to contents of

297 Goodyear, C. P. ,

Godair, W. H., payment to

appropriation for payment, outer bar chan-

1453

nel, Brunswick, Ga ..

338

Goddard, Hallowell,

Gordon, James C. ,

pension increased .

1392 payment to

487

Goddard, Luther D. , pension increased..

Gordon, Julia L. (widow),

1683 pension increased .

1505

Goddard, Thatcher,

Gordon, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

payment to

488

ministrator of

221 Gorgas, William Crawford,

Goddard, William, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 209

may be appointed assistant surgeon-

general, Army

1022

Godeffroy and Company,

Gorrell, Cyrus V. ,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment 764 pension increased .

1620

Godefroy, A. E. , and Company,

Goslin, Emma D. (widow) ,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment 764 pension

1670

Goderich, Canada,

Goss, James R. ,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816 appropriation for services

267

Godfrey, Edwin J., pension increased .

Gothenburg, Sweden, 1339 appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Godfrey, Maria L. (widow), pension increased .

Gottieis, Henrietta ( stepmother) ,

1387 pension ..

1469

Goff, Edward N., pension increased .

Gould, Alphonso T. ,

1460 pension increased..

1662

Goings, John A. , payment to sons of

Gould, Elizabeth O. (widow) ,

629 pension increased ..

1237

Gold and Silver,

appropriation for diplomatic cooperation

for fixed relationship of, in mone-

tary systems

1138

Gold Coins,

appropriation for recoining .....

447, 1109

deficiency appropriation for recoinage ... 7 , 1035

Louisiana Exposition gold dollar author-

ized

446

Golden, J. W. ,

payment to

487

Gove, Freeman R.,

pension increased ..

1539

Gove, John and Thomas,

repeal of appropriation to pay French spoliation claim to administrator of. 1070

Gore, John, Ebenezer, and Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Government Exhibit, Saint Louis Exposition,

appropriation for erection of building

446

for agricultural exhibit

1108

Government Hospital for the Insane,

Golden, Jacob, pension

appropriation for current expenses .... 457, 1120

1340

for buildings and grounds ...

457, 1120

INDEX .

2107

Government Hospital for the Insane- Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for heating and lighting

plant, etc

457

for electric fire-alarm apparatus

1120

for support of District of Columbia

patients ....

614, 979

deficiency appropriation for new ings
for repairs and improvements for refrigerating plant.. for current expenses
for hospital extension ...

build20
20, 1055 20
571 , 1055 1055

act changing proceedings for admission to,

repealed .

1043

Government Printing Office ( see also Public Printing and Binding) ,

appropriation for leaves to employees . 481 , 1146

deficiency appropriation for leaves to

employees .

27, 1069

temporary occupation by Grand Army of

Republic encampment .

303

"Governor Bowdoin, " Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.

231

Governors Island, Boston, Mass.,
city permitted to improve and use Governors Island, N. Y. ,
appropriation for enlargement .... deficiency appropriation for improvement. Gowanus Bay, N. Y.,

743
1130 564

appropriation for improvement of Bay

Ridge and Red Hook channels .. 463 , 1124

Gowdey, Edwin M.,

pension increased .

1450

Gower, A. G.,

payment to

489

Grade Crossings, D. C., provisions for abolishing
Grading Streets, etc., D. C., appropriation for
Graham, Charles, pension increased .

918 597, 962
1690

Graham, Ella R. (widow),

pension increased .

1325

Graham, George W.,

payment to, for services .:

238

Graham, Hannah H. (widow) ,
pension .. Graham, Harry L. ,
pension increased .

1414 1711

Graham, John,

pension increased .

1744

Graham, Thomas,

pension increased .

1715

Grainger, Charles M.,

pension increased ..

1539

Grand Army of the Republic,

encampment, D. C. , regulations for pre-

serving order, etc ..

748

appropriation for executing .

748

permit for electric wires for illumina-

tion

748

loan of flags etc. , for decorations ..

749

use of reservations, etc. , permitted .

749

loan of hospital tents, etc ..

749

permits for temporary occupancy of

streets by railroads ....

743

permitted to occupy Government Print-

ing Office

303

permitted to erect statue to founder, Benja-

min F. Stephenson , in Washington,

D. C ..

740

Grand Army Soldiers' Home, D. C., appropriation for

613, 979

Grand Forks, N. Dak. ,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1085

Grand Haven, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 343

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site ..

316

appropriation for

426, 1085

Grand Island, N. Y. ,

time extended for bridging Niagara River

at

73

Grand Island, Nebr.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208 Grand Junction, Colo.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 270 , 1003

Grand Lake, La.,

appropriation for lighting channel .... 433 , 1094

Grand Marais, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge .

344

Grand Marais, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 346

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Grand Rapids, Mich. ,

examination of public building, directed ;

report

326

Grand River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 362 Grande Ronde Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of

258,994

Granger, Lydia M. , widow,

pension increased .

1386

Grant, Joseph W. ,

pension increased

1279

Grant, Margaret M. (widow) ,

pension increased

1368

Grant Memorial,

appropriation for commencing erection ;

contracts, limit of cost, etc ...

460

Grasses,

appropriation for investigations, etc ... 292, 1154 Grassy Island, Mich.,
appropriation for light-keeper's dwelling . 431

Graves, Philander H.,

pension ...

1757

Graves, Samuel M.,

pension increased ..

1280

Gray, Ambrose W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executrix of ..

209

Gray, James F. ,

pension increased ..

1472

Gray, Mary L.,

payment to

488

Gray, William, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .... 219 , 228 , 230, 232, 233

Gray, William, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ...

221 , 221 , 227

Gray, William E.,

pension ..

1359

Gray, William G.,

pension increased .

1365

Gray, Wilson G.,

pension increased .

1642

Grays Harbor, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of ..... 347 , 462

Grayson, Joel,

appropriation for employment of. ... 127, 860

2108

INDEX .

Grazing Leases, permitted on Creek Indian lands

Page. 504

Grealish, M. J., payment to estate of .
Great Britain, appropriation for ambassador to for secretary of embassy . for second secretary.. for third secretary
for executing treaty with, boundary
convention with, for settling boundary

1613
76, 807 77,808 77,808 77, 809 Alaskan
1138 Alaskan
1961

supplementary, disposal of real and per-

sonal property..

1914

invited to form joint commission on waters between Canada and United States. 373

supplementary extradition treaty with ... 1864

treaty with, concerning Zanzibar import duties ..
to facilitate construction of ship canal .. Great Falls and Old Dominion Railroad Com-

1959 1903

pany,

may use Aqueduct Bridge, D. C. , for street

railway

781

deposit of cost of altering bridge, etc......... 781

Great Falls, Mont.,

land district established ; office........

171

register and receiver to be appointed... 172

port of entry, Montana and Idaho district . 485

Great Kanawha River,

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

Great Lakes,

appropriation for maintaining lights in

channels of..

433, 1095

for selecting naval training station ..... 665

protection of water levels, Lake Superior,

etc

361

Great Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts

352, 1126

Great Seal ofthe United States,

deficiency appropriation for recutting..

552

reappropriation .

1032

Great Sodus Bay, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Greece,

convention with, for exchange of postal

money orders

1924

Greece, Roumania, Servia, and, appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation . Greeley, Martin,
pension Greely, Charles B. ,
pension increased .

76, 807 77,808
1646
1590

Green, Ann M. (widow),

pension .

1678

Green Bay Agency, Wis. , appropriation for Indian Agent at ...... 246 , 982

Green Bay, Wis., appropriation for public building for improvement of harbor.... construction of public building authorized at
appropriation for

1085 345
319 427

Green, Bernard R. , to have charge of new building for National Museum ; compensation .....
Green Lake, Me.,
deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery. Green, Lizzie B. (widow) ,
pension increased .. Green River, Ky.,
appropriation for improvement of........................

1102 11
1342 359

Green, Samuel W.,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ......

223, 225

Green, William H.,

pension increased ..

1516

Greene, David,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of..

... 227 , 227 , 229, 231

Greene, Ida D. ( widow),

pension ..

1356

Greenhalgh, John B. ,

pension increased ..

1418

Greenleaf, Martha A. (widow),

pension increased .

1333

Greenman, Anson,

pension increased .

1557

Greenman, James,

pension increased .

1686

Greensboro, N. C.,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 315

appropriation for......

424, 1086

for rent....

1086

deficiency appropriation for rent, public

building

1037

Greenville, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

Greenville, Tenn.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for.

427, 1085

Greenwich, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Greer, Rebecca R. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1598

Gregg, John W. ,

pension increased .

1303

Gregori, Antonio,

payment to

488

Grennue, Joseph,

pension increased .

1743

Grenoble, France, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Griffen, Zeno T.,

pension increased ..

1383

Griffin, Heber C.,

pension increased ..

1308

Griffith, James,

payment to

490

Grimes, L. H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heir of...

215

Grimes, Pleasant O. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

208

Grimes, Queen Esther (widow),

pension increased ..

1464

Grinnell, Benjamin,

pension increased .

1510

Grinstead, Louisa N. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1479

Grossman, Herman,

payment to

1452

Groth, Mrs. H. H.,

payment to

487

Grove, Hans A.,

pension increased .

1740

Grove, Jacob H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

210

Grove, Lemuel,

pension increased ..

1380

Grove, Leonard S.,

pension increased ..

1632

INDEX .

2109

Grubaugh, George R. , pension .

Page. 1705

Guadalupe River, Tex., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Guadeloupe, West Indies, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Guam,

appropriation for general storehouse, naval

station ..

1188

deficiency appropriation for repairs, etc. ,

of marine barracks

1052

trade statistics of commerce with, required. 172

Guantanamo, Cuba,

appropriation for naval station

1188

Guatemala, convention with, as to tenure of property . 1944

trade-mark convention with ...

1866

Guatemala and Honduras, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation .

76, 807 77,808

GuaaptpermoaplraiaCtiitoyn, fGouractoenmsaulla-,general at ...... 81 , 813

Guayaquil, Ecuador, appropriation for consul-general at for clerk hire ......

81, 813 86, 818

Guelph, Canada, appropriation for consul at .

84, 816

Guinn, George W.,

pension increased ..

1357

Gulf Coast, Western,

additional copies of bulletin on geology of,

ordered printed

1764

Gulfport, Miss., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 463

Gumm, Betsey (widow),

pension increased ..

1463

Gun and Mortar Batteries,

appropriation for construction ........ 305 , 1024

Gun Factory, Army,

appropriation for finishing seacoast

guns ...

307, 1025

Gun Factory, Washington, D. C. , Naval, appropriation for steel-casting plant ...
for equipping laboratory for new machinery for new power house . for converting lathes ..

666, 1180 666
666, 1180 1180
1180

Gunboats, Navy, construction of two, authorized; cost ........... 690

Gunboats on Western Rivers, deficiency appropriation for ..

30, 589

Gunnery Exercises, Navy, appropriation for .

664, 1178

Guns, Seacoast, appropriation for contract ..

307, 1026

for proof .

307, 1026

Gunsally, Nancy M. (widow ),

pension

1513

Guntersville, Ala.,

bridge authorized across Tennessee River,

from Lewis Bluff to .....

921

Gurney and Smith, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 222

Guthrie, Okla. ,

construction of public building author-

ized ; site

316

appropriation for.

426, 1086

for sidewalk, jail

1142

iimit of cost increased , public building ... 1205

Guy, William M.,

pension increased .

1287

Gymnasiums, D. C.,

license tax on

626

H.

Haas, Johann Conrad, pension increased..

Page. 1473

Habana, Cuba,

appropriation for consul-general at ..... 199, 813

for clerk hire...

818

deficiency appropriation for clerk hire

553

Hacks, etc. , D. C. ,

license tax on owners; badges .....

624

Hagerstown, Md.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized 1207 Hague Conventions,

declaration as to launching projectiles from

balloons

1839

for international arbitration

1779

governing maritime warfare by principles

of Geneva Convention

1827

governing war on land .

1803

Hahn, Frederick M.,

pension increased.

1290

Hahn, Louis,

pension increased .

1361

Haight, Elias M. ,

pension increased ..

1315

Haiti, appropriation for minister to ...

76, 807

Hale, James A. ,

pension increased..

1638

Hale, Jane (widow), pension .
Halifax, Nova Scotia, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ..

1644
81, 813 86, 818

Hall, Daniel A. , alias William Knapp,

pension increased ..

1430

Hall, David E., pension increased ...
Hall, James P.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to .

1509 217

Hall, John,

pension increased ....

1373

Hall, John H.,

pension increased ..

1712

Hall, John W. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 217

Hall, Sybil F. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1302

Hall, Thomas, pension ..

1275

Hall of Records, D. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for purchase of

square 143 for

1039

for preliminary plans; limit of cost ..

1039

purchase of square 143 as site for, author-

ized; plans, etc ....

1212

Hall, Zillah,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

214

Haller, Israel,

pension increased .

1448

Halls, etc. , D. C.,

license tax on proprietors of...

625

Halsey, Stephen B.,

payment to...

1492

Haltenhof, Charles,

pension increased ..

1424

Halton, Pinckney,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

215

Ham, David,

pension increased ......

1527

2110

INDEX .

Hamburg Bay,

Page.

included in general improvements of Mis-

sissippi River

366

Hamburg, Germany,
appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ...

81, 813 86, 818

. Hamilton, Bermuda, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Hamilton, Edgar A.,

pension increased.

1422

Hannifin, Dennis, pension increased ..
Hanover, Germany, appropriation for consul at
Hanscom, Richard G., pension increased......
Haraldson, Torgus, pension increased ..
Harbor and River Front, D. C., appropriation for expenses

Page. 1243 83,815 1752 1325 600, 965

Hamilton, John, second, pension increased .

Harbor Regulations, D. C.,

1668 modification of anchorage, etc

535

Hamilton, Ohio,

purchase of public building site author-

ized

320

appropriation for

429

deficiency appropriation for

1038

limit of cost increased, site for public

building

1207

Hamilton, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Harbors (see also River and Harbor Improve-

ments ) ,

appropriation for improvement of.

331 ,

408 , 462, 1124

Hardee, Esther A. C. (widow),

pension .

1355

Harding, Elizabeth D. (widow),

pension

1514

Harding, Norman B. ,

Hamilton, William T. , pension increased .

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

1402

administrator of .

210

Hamlin, Carlin, pension increased .
Hammond, Caroline A. ( widow) , pension increased...
Hammond, Ind. ,

Hardison, Gabriel,

1328 payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heir of..

213

1497 Hardy, Nancy E. (widow),

pension ..

1412

construction of public building authorized

Hargreaves, Robert,

at

318 pension increased .

1556

appropriation for

427, 1086 Harlem Kills, N. Y. ,

bridge authorized across Calumet River at. 660 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Hampton, Elizabeth J.,

Harlem River, N. Y.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 208 approp

for improvement of...

349

Hampton, Kensey J.,

Harper, James,

appointment authorized as captain and

pension increased ........

1282

quartermaster, Army

1030 Harpool, Mary,

Hampton River, N. H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 380

administrator of ...

212

Hampton Roads, Va.,

Harput, Turkey,

appropriation for improvement of; remov-

appropriation for consul at ...

84,816

ing Middle Ground Bar Hampton, Va.,

336, 1125 Harriman Southern Railroad Company,

I may bridge Tennessee River.

492

appropriation for Indian school .............. 271 , 1003 Harriman, Tenn. ,

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers'

bridge authorized across Emory River at . 499

Home

470, 1134 Harrington, Grace (widow),

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

pension increased ..

1735

Soldiers' Home ...... 14, 564, 589, 1049 Harrington, William ,

Handy, William,

pension increased ..

1430

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

66 Harriot," Brig,

ministrator of

224 payment of French spoliation claim on

Hanger, Jacob L.,

account of...

221

military record corrected ..........

1494 Harris, Isaac,

Hankau, China,

pension increased .

1723

appropriation for consul at

82, 814 Harris, James B. ,

Hankins, James W. ,

pension ...

1311

pension increased .

1381 Harris, Parmenas F. ,

Hankins, Thomas R.,

pension increased.

1549

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

Harris, Sarah Anne (mother),

administrator of

212 pension .

1348

"Hanna," Brig,

Harris, Stephen,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

pension increased .

1508

count of Hanna, Emma S. (widow) ,

225 Harris, Thomas D. , payment to legal representatives of ...... 241

pension increased ...............

1390 Harrisburg, Pa.,

"Hannah," Brig, Blakely, Master,

terms of court

549

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

Harrison, Ambrus U.,

count of

pension increased..

1560

"Hannah," Brig, Watts, Master, payment of French spoliation claim on account of

Harrison, Ark. ,

construction of public building authorized

228

at

317

Hannah, Thomas, pension increased .
Hannibal, Mo.,

appropriation for

427, 1086

1460 limit of cost increased, public building 1203

terms of court

72

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

Harrison, Carter B. ,

sippi River at

365 pension ...

1608

INDEX .

2111

Harrison, James, pension increased ..

Page. Havre, France, 1748 appropriation for consul at

Page. 81 , 813

Harrisonburg, Va . , terms of court ...

552, 794

Harrower, Benjamin S.,

pension increased ..

1461

Hart, Albert J.,

pension increased ..

1722

Hart Farm School, D. C.,

appropriation for care of children at ... 613, 978

Hart, Frederick,

pension increased ..

1614

Hartford, Conn., limit of cost increased , public building ... 311

appropriation for

424, 1086

bridge authorized across Connecticut

River, between East Hartford and . 836

Hartzell, Alvin J.,

pension increased .

1396

"Harvard," U. S. Cruiser,

certain presents to, returned to Harvard

University

770

Harvard University,

return of certain presents from U. S.

Cruiser " Harvard " .

770

for clerk hire ...............

86, 818

Hawaii,

appropriation for salaries, government

in ..

148, 883

for judges . for contingent expenses.

148, 883 148, 883

for clerk and reporter, district court .. 169, 905

for meteorological stations .

288, 1149

for agricultural station

302, 1164

for surveying coasts .

436, 1098

for quarantine service ..

450, 1116

for paying, in part, judgments for prop-

erty destroyed in suppressing bu-

bonic plague

780

bond issue to pay balance of judgments

for property destroyed in suppress-

ing bubonic plague ...

781

silver coins and certificates to be redeemed . 770

terms of Territorial senators, first election . 200 trade statistics of commerce with, required . 172

"Hawaii," Barkentine,
granted American register; coasting trade restricted

335

Harvey, Elijah E., pension increased .
Harvey, Erma G. (daughter) , pension ..
Hashbargar, James B. (son) , penson..
Haskell, Ann M. ( widow), pension increased ..
Haslam, Esther D. (widow), pension increased .
Hasselman, Otto H., pension increased..

Hawaiian Silver Certificates,

1363 to be redeemed by Hawaii by January 1 ,

1905

771

1394 liability for redemption , limited

771

Hawaiian Silver Coins,

1377 receivable for government dues at face

value ..

770

1690 to be recoined into United States subsidiary

coins

770

1469 exchange of, at customs and revenue offices

into United States silver coins ..... 771

1349 purchase of mutilated and abraded coins.. 771

Hastings, Nebr. ,

legal-tender quality to cease January 1,

construction of new public building, au-

1904 .

771

thorized

316 liability for redemption, limited .

771

appropriation for

426, 1086 appropriation for transporting coins ..

771

Hatch, Adelaide G. (widow),

Hawkins, Emily (widow),

pension increased..

1490 pension increased .

1703

Hatch, Crowell,

Hawkins, John W. ,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrators of

218,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ....

217

219, 219, 221 , 221 , 228, 228 , 228, 228, 229, 233 | Hawkins, S. M. , jr.,

Hatch, Harriet (widow),

payment to

490

pension increased ....

1654 Hawks, Clara C. (widow),

Hatch, Mark,

pension .

1476

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

Hawley, Charles H. ,

ministrator of; proof...........

219 granted honorable discharge........

1505

Hatchett, Levi,

pension increased ..

1446

Hatfield, Alfred, pension .
Hathaway, Martin V. , pension increased .
Hattery, William M. , pension increased..
Hatton, George W., pension increased ...
Haughton, Frances C. (widow), pension increased ..
Haupt, John F., payment of Court of Claims judgment to..
Haven, John, payment of French spoliation claim to executor of....

1470 1251 1736 1403 1436 214
224

Haven, Nathaniel A. , payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of ...... 219 , 223, 225, 230, 231

Harens, Ezra S. ,

payment to ..

241

Hay, Honorable John, joint meeting of the two Houses of Congress for memorial address on late President McKinley by ..... printing ordered of the eulogy on the late President McKinley
thanks of Congress presented, for address on the late President McKinley ....
Hay Lake Channel, Saint Marys River, Mich., appropriation for improvement of
Hayes, Michael, granted honorable discharge .
Hayne, Jesse, payment to
Haynes, James B., deficiency appropriation for services .....
Haynes, John, pension
Hays, Mary E. S. (widow), pension
Hays, Susan (widow), pension increased..

1763 1774 1771 463 1457 488
26 1756 1364 1348

2112

INDEX .

Hayward, Wis.,

Page.

appropriation for Indian school ; allowance

for extra pupils ...

271 , 1003

deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 1058

"Hazard," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on account of
Hazelton, John A. , pension increased..

233 1305

Hazing, Naval Academy,

expulsion, etc. , for ....

1198

Hazlett, Nora G.,

patent in fee to, for lands in Oklahoma .. 261

Hazzard, Charles H.,

pension increased .

1431

Hazzard, Joseph D. , pension increased .
Head-Money Tax, collection of, on alien passengers from foreign ports .
not changed, by transfer of jurisdiction to Department of Commerce and Labor
Headington, Nimrod, pension increased..

1392
1213 828 1432

Headstones for Soldiers' Graves, appropriation for

463, 1128

deficiency appropriation for . 29, 1073, 1076, 1077

Heald Bank, Tex. ,

appropriation for light-ship .............

1092

Health Conferences,

to be called by Public Health, etc. , Service. 714

Health Department, D. C.,

appropriation for health officer; inspectors,

etc

608, 973

for preventing contagious diseases, etc. 608, 973

for disinfecting service .

608, 974

for sanitary emergency fund ..

608, 974

for expenses, food, etc. , adulterations . 608, 974

for quarantine buildings, Washington

Asylum grounds ..

974

forisolationwards, contagious diseases . 609, 974

deficiency appropriation for food adultera-

tion investigations ...

94

for preventing spread of contagious dis-

eases

1044

Health Officer, D. C.,

appropriation for, deputy, etc ... 608, 973 may issue permits for temporary privies.. 74

Heard, Melinda (widow),

pension increased ..

1526

Hearings in Land Entries,

appropriation for expenses

452, 1115

deficiency appropriation for expenses

1056

subpoenas to be issued by registers and

receivers ...

790

proof of service by other than officer.. 790

service in county of hearing; time ...

790

fees and mileage ; advances ...

790

penalty for willfully refusing to appear or

testify

790

depositions from witnesses not in county. 790

officers authorized ; subpoenas .

790

penalty for not testifying; fees

790

fees for taking depositions ..

791

rights of opposing party; notice

791

Heater, Caroline,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .......

217

Heath, Orra H.,

pension increased ....

1408

Heath, W. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services

1062

Heating, etc., Apparatus, Public Buildings,

appropriation for, services of mechanics .. 422,

1090

deficiency appropriation for

28, 585

Heddleson, Mary B. (widow) ,

Page.

pension increased .

1576

Heen, Nellie Ett,

land in North Dakota granted to

1608

Height of Buildings, D. C.,

modification of regulations .

1022

Heinzman, George,

pension increased ..

1614

Heirlooms, D. C.,

exempt from personal tax .........

620

Heisey, H. L.,

payment to

489

Heiser, John G.,

pension increased .

1538

Heiskell, Ferdinand,

pension increased .

1724

Heitman, Francis,

appropriation for compilation of Historical

Register of the Army .

928

Heitz, Christina (widow) ,

pension.

1339

Helena, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

terms of court ...

795

Helena, Mont.,

appropriation for salaries, assay office .. 147,881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147, 881

for public building ...

421

Hell Gate, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of ..................... 349

Helmbold, Maggie ( widow) ,

pension .

1322

Helton, Oliver P.,

pension increased .

1574

Hemley, Frank,

payment to

486

Hench, Martha Elizabeth (widow) ,

pension .

1573

Henderson, Ky.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1086

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1204

Henderson, Ky. , Christian Church of,

payment to

1609

Henderson, Michael C.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

208

Henderson, T. J. , appointed a manager, National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers ....... 738

Henderson, William A. ,

pension increased ..

1535

Hendersons Point, N. H.,

appropriation for removal of, Portsmouth

navy-yard

672

Hendry, Margaret (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1321

Hennepin Canal ( see Illinois and Mississippi

Canal ).

"Henrietta," Sloop,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of......

227

Henry, James,

payment to ..

486

Henshaw, Ferrie, Eugene Beebe and,

compromise of suits against, as sureties on

certain bonds

786

Hensley, Elizabeth,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of

215

Herbert, B. W. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of......

217

INDEX.

2113

Herr Island, Pa.,

Page.

appropriation for locks and dams, Alle-

gheny River .

462

Hersum, Ann A. (widow),

pension increased ...

1686

Hertzog, Andrew J. ,

pension increased .

1551

Hess, Clarence D. ,

pension increased ..

1555

Hexom, Ole, alias Ole H. Olson,

pension increased .......

1674

Heywood, William, pension increased ....
Hibbetts, D. C., payment of Court of Claims judgment to executor of...

1597 214

Hickerson, Charles,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrators of

216

Hickox, William C. ,

pension ..

1456

Hicks, Andrew E.,

pension increased .

1485

Hicks, Samuel,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

216

Higgins, George H.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses .

581

Higgins, George H. ,

pension increased ..

1702

Hightower, Marmaduke D. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Highway Bridge, D. C. ,

time for construction extended and cost

increased of ...

598

Highways System, D. C. ,

appropriation for expenses of permanent . 596, 961

Hill, Asa C.,

pension increased .

1631

Hill, Emmet C.,

pension increased ..

1668

Hill, Irenia C. (mother) , pension ..
Hill, Jane K. (widow), pension increased ..
Hill, S. Josie (widow),
pension ..

1365 1345 1686

Hill, Lucy M. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1263

Hill, Maggie U.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of .

212

Hillen, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Hills, Frank E.,

pension increased .

1733

Hillsboro Bay, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of ................ 339

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Hillsboro Inlet, Fla.,

appropriation for light station; limit of

cost

430, 1092

Hilo, Hawaii,

report to be made on post-office building

for

326

Hilton, Charles S. F. ,

pension

1601

Hilton, Hale,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

219

Hinkle, Mary A. ( widow) ,

pension .

1649

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -56

Hirsch, Solomon, deficiency appropriation for estate of, late minister to Turkey
Historical Register of the Army,
appropriation for manuscript. for printing; distribution ..
Hiwassee River, Tenn. ,
appropriation for improvement of preliminary examination of, to be made.. Ho par kin tubby, deficiency appropriation for paying estate
of

Page. 1032 928 928 358 382
1077

Hoag, Israel V. ,

pension increased .

1659

Hoag, William,

pension increased ..

1347

Hobart, Okla. ,

additional allowance for public works

from sale of lots .

506

Hober, Hiram A. , pension increased .
Hockenbury, Allen, pension increased .
Hocker, A. C., payment to
Hodge, David M., appropriation for services to Creek Indians
Hodge, William M., pension increased .
Hodges, Augustus E., pension increased ..

1591 1359 489 995 1523 1339

Hodgkins, W. C., deficiency appropriation for reimbursing .
Hoefer, Margaret (widow), pension increased ...
Hoffer, J. G., payment to
Hoffman, Aaron B. ,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Hoffman, William K. ,
pension increased ..
Hog Island Shoal, R. I.,
deficiency appropriation for light-house and fog-signal station
Hogan, Anna May (widow), pension .
Hogan, Charles,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ...

7 1358 489
217 1288
9 1464
208

Hogansburg, N. Y.,

bridge across Saint Lawrence River at,

declared a public structure .

34

Hogs,

appropriation for inspection of live, and

carcasses ..

289, 1150

Holbrook, Mary E. (widow),

pension

1477

Holcomb, William C.,

pension increased .

1437

Holden, Mary E. ( widow) , pension .

1364

Holdridge, William,

pension increased ..

1396

Holgate, William,

pension increased .

1362

Holiday Recess,

ordered for 1901

1763

for 1902 ..

1773

Holiday, Sylvester, pension increased .
Holland (Netherlands ) , appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation ...

1549
76, 807 77, 808

2114

INDEX .

Holland, John, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Holland, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.
Holleman, Richard T., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Hollingsead, Martha A. (widow), pension
Hollister, John, pension increased .

Page. 207
343 208 1532 1338

Holloway, Thomas,

pension

1372

Holman, Clementina H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .....

215

Holmes and Leathers,

payment to administratrix of surviving

partner

238

Holmes, Henry M.,

granted honorable discharge .

1582

Holmes, Ira J. S.,

pension increased ...

1731

Holmes, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrators of.

221

Holmes, Mary (widow),

pension .

1372

Holstein, Maggie V. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1694

Holston River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of........................ 358

Holt, Joseph,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 214

Holthoff , Frank,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

sole heir of....

209

Holyoke, Mass.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1086

Home for Incurables, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance ..... 612,978

Homeopathic Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for care of patients ...... 612 , 978

Homer, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227, 229, 231

Homestead Entries,

commutation for homestead purposes of

lands ceded by Wichitas, etc. , Oklahoma .. Homestead Laws,
extended to Alaska ; restriction as to indemnity, etc. , selections ....
Homestead Settlers,

63 1028

prior to May 17, 1900, permitted second en-

tries

203

commutation not allowed unless five years'

residence shown....

203

Homesteads,

entries permitted on opened Colville In-

dian Reservation ...

803

commutation not applicable to irrigation

entries ....

389

entry and charges for lands under irriga-

tion act .

388

"Homeward Bound," Bark,

foreign bark "Otto Gildemeister " granted

American register and name changed

to

198

Homochitto River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of

355

Honduras, Guatemala and,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation

77,808

Hongkong, China,
appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ..

Page. 81, 813 86, 818

Honolulu, Hawan,

appropriation for immigrant station build-

ing, etc

1086

for quarantine station, wharf, etc.

1091

report to be made on post-office building

for

326

Honorable Discharges Granted, Anderson, William E ..
Bowen, George K Cordingly, Thomas Emerson, John .. Hawley, Charles H Holmes, Henry M .. Lee, Daniel F. McCalla, Henry L. Morman, Thomas J. Oliver, Francis M .. Ravenscroft, Anthony R Schneider, Rhinehart .. Walker, Hiram C... Welch, Samuel . Woodford, Charles F Honorable Service Roll, prohibited in postal service .

1611 1276 1515 1243 1505 1582 1698 1652 1614 1698 1699 1489 1570 1582 1613
.... 118, 1176

Hoop, Gibboney F.,

pension increased ..

1477

Hoopa Valley Agency, Cal.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of

257,993

Hooper, Mary. F. (widow),

pension increased..

1259

Hooper, Otis T. ,

pension increased ..

1590

Hooper, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

218

Hooper, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Hope and Help Mission, D. C., appropriation for maintenance..

613,979

"Hope," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

229

Hopkins, Caleb,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227, 231

Hopkins, Hannah J. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1691

Horan, Jeremiah,

pension .

1425

Horn Island Pass, Miss.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Horn, John A. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .

208

Horn, W. F.,

payment to

1453

Horn, William F.,

pension increased ..

1382

Hornbrook, James J., lineal rank in cavalry corrected .......... 805

Horne, A. Paul,

pension increased .....

1692

Hornick, John,

claim to be reheard in Court of Claims ... 1492

Horse, Diseases ofthe,

revised special report on, to be printed ... 745

correction in enrollment of title of bill

authorized .

1771

Horse Stealing, Indian Territory,

punishment for ..

792

INDEX .

2115

Horses,

Page.

appropriation for inspection of live, prod-

ucts, and carcasses .

289, 1150

Horses, Army,

appropriation for care, etc., of ..

515 , 937

for purchase of; limit ...

515, 937

purchase of officers' , when ordered be-

yond the seas, etc..

937

Horses, etc., Claims,

deficiency appropriation for

30

Horton, James E.,

pension increased .

1377

Horton, William M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses

581

Hosack, Williams S.,

pension increased.

1493

Hospital Corps, Army,

appropriation for pay of enlisted men .. 509, 930

reorganized; rank and pay .....

930

Hospitals, Army,

appropriation for construction, etc. , post . 517, 939

for building Vancouver Barracks, Wash. 939

for general

517

deficiency appropriation for construction

and repair of post .

94, 1045

Hostetler, William H. . ,

pension increased...

1709

Hot Springs, Ark. , appropriation for public building for Army and Navy Hospital .

421 517, 939

Hot Springs Reservation, Ark.,

appropriation for protection and improve-

ment

456, 1119

time extended for completing incline rail-

way, West Mountain

788

Hot Springs, S. Dak. , appropriation for national sanitarium for

volunteer soldiers

282, 1136

Hotaling, Lyman,

pension increased .

1566

Hotel Proprietors, D. C. ,

personal tax on

619

license tax on

625

Hough, William N.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

216

Houghton, George E. ,

pension increased ..

1310

Housatonic River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 349

House, Mary A.,

pension ..

1281

House of Detention, D. C. ,

appropriation for expenses

..... 607,972

House of Representatives,

appropriation for compensation of Mem-

bers and Delegates ..

124, 858

for mileage..
for Speaker's office, clerks, etc. for Chaplain

124, 858 124, 858 124,858

for Clerk of the House, clerks, etc ... 124, 858

list of private claims 52d -57th Con-

gresses ..

858

for chief engineer, assistants, etc .. 125, 859

for clerks and messengers to committees,

annual ....

125, 859

for janitors to committees ..

125, 859

for clerks to committees, session .... 126, 859

for Sergeant-at-Arms, deputy, etc .... 126 , 859

for Doorkeeper, assistant, etc ..... 126, 860

messengers, laborers, etc ..

126, 860

superintendent folding room , etc ... 126 , 860

pages, etc ..

126, 860

superintendent document room, etc. 126 , 860

special employees; successors ..

127, 860

House of Representatives-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Postmaster, assistant,

etc

127,861

horses, mail wagons, etc.

127,861

for official reporters..

127,861

for66stenographers to committees ... 127, 861 during the session " to mean 121

days ..

127

to mean 207 days .

861

for clerk hire, Members and Delegates 127 , 861

for contingent expenses; materials for

folding

128, 861

for fuel and oil

128, 862

for furniture and repairs

128, 862

for packing boxes..

128,862

for miscellaneous items

128, 862

for expenses, special and select commit-

tees ..

128, 862

for stationery.

128, 862

for postage stamps .

128,862

for printing and binding

.... 479 , 1145

for site for building for committee rooms,

etc

1113

deficiency appropriation for folding mate-

rials

26, 759

for J. C. Courts .

26

for furniture and repairs

26, 1068

for funeral expenses, President McKin-

ley

26, 581

for miscellaneous items .. 27, 285, 581 , 774, 1068

for special and select committees

27,

285, 774, 1068

for printing and binding ..... 27, 31, 285, 1069

for fuel and oil ..

118, 1068

for refitting document room

570

for library; shelving

570

for compensation of Members and Dele-

gates ..

581 , 1067

for horses and wagons, Doorkeeper

581

for stationery.. for contested election expenses

581 , 1068 581 , 1067

for widows of deceased members..
for digest of private claims for laborer, Clerk's office ..

581 , 1067 582
582

for janitor, official reporters' rooms .

582

for clerk to conference minority

582

for extra pay, official reporters .

582, 1068

for paying clerk, contested elections ex-

penses

582

for Herman Gauss and D. S. Porter.. 582 , 1068

for elevator conductors .

582

for John Douglas

583

for Albert Scott ..

583, 1068

for extra month's pay to employees . 583, 1066

for clerk of Appropriations Committee . 1066

for assistant driver, folding room

1068

for superintendent, Clerk's document

room

1068

for biographical Congressional Directory 1068

for joint committee, dedication of Loui-

siana Purchase Exposition

1068

for Laps D. McCord

1068

committee appointed to confer with one

from the Senate on Army appropria-

tion bill...

1770

contingent expenses appropriations, re-

striction on use of

26

construction of building for committee rooms, etc., authorized ..
supervision of commission of Memberselect .....
selection of site; condemnation, etc.

1114
1114 1114

disbursements to be by Secretary of the

Interior...

1114

employees to be paid December, 1901 , sala-

ries, December 18

734

2116

INDEX .

House of Representatives-Continued.

Page.

employees to be paid December, 1902, salaries, December 18 ....
five members to serve on joint Library Committee ...
furniture to be under Superintendent of Capitol ...
joint committee with Senate authorized, to attend dedication of Saint Louis Fair
joint meeting with Senate for memorial address on late President McKinley by Hon. John Hay

1229 735 125
1774 1763

House, Susan (widow), pension ..
Houseal, William H., pension increased ..
Household Property, D. C., exempt from personal tax ;
Housiaux, John, pension increased ..

limit .......

1363 1734 620 1426

Houston, Alman J.,

pension increased .

1664

Houston, Stephen J.,

pension increased .

1580

Houston, Tex.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

examination of public building directed ;

report

326

purchase of public building site authorized ;

alternative provisions ...

1208

terms of court

68

Hovey, Amos,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Howard, Anderson,

pension increased .

1286

Howard, Charles G. ,

pension increased.

1451

Howard, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of..

229

Howard, Samuel M.,

pension increased..

1326

Howard University (see also Freedmen's Hos-

pital ) , appropriation for maintenance...
for expenses. Howarth, Richard S.,
pension increased ..

457, 457,

11112211

1746

Howe, A. H., deficiency appropriation for services, etc .. 580

Howe, alias Harrington, George F.,

pension increased.

1653

Howe, Charlotte M. (widow) , pension ...
Howe, Frederick A. , payment to

1434 1453

Howe, Gilbert P. , pension ..
Howe, John M., pension increased ..

1308 1314

Howe, Michael,

pension increased ..

1751

Howell, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

222

Howells and Company, J. A. , deficiency appropriation for advertising .. 12

Howitzers,

appropriation for field, and carriages .. 308, 1026 for breech-loading siege, and car-

riages....

308, 1026

Howgate, Henry W.,

Page.

settlement ofliabilityof sureties on bondof. 1611

personal liability not affected . .............

1612

Howland, Cornelius,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Howland, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

224

Hoxie, William H.,

pension increased .

1414

Hoyt, Edna K. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1656

Hualpais Indians, Ariz.,

appropriation for support, etc., of.............. 257,993

Hubbard, Jared P.,

pension increased .

1598

Hubbard, Jesse H. ,

pension increased .

1428

Hubbell, Richard,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

233

Huckelberry, John W. ,

pension increased .

1559

Hucksters, D. C.,

license tax on; description; exemptions.. 626

Huddersfield, England,

appropriation for consul at .. for clerk hire ...

82,814 86,818

Hudson, Henry P.,

pension increased .

1409

Hudson River, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of................... 349

for lighting....

433, 1094

board to report on cause of freshets, etc... 349 establishment of east channel line , Troy.. 349

Hudson, William H.,

pension increased ..

1531

Huff, John A.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 209

Huffman, Abraham_W. ,

pension increased..

1757

Huffman, John,

pension increased ..

1584

Hufford, Jeffrey,

pension increased ..

1744

Hughes, Benjamin F.,

pension increased

1751

Hughes, William,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

216

Huling, Edward C. , payment to
Hull, England, appropriation for consul at

1452 ...... 84, 815

Hull, Isaac,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

215

Hume, David P.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of....

214

Humes, Milton, and others,

may bridge Tennessee River, Lewis Bluff

to Guntersville, Ala..

921

Hummel, Annie S. (widow) , pension ..

... 1285

Humphrey, James W.,

pension increased

1379

Humphreys, Cyrus A. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ....

214

Hunt, Henry,

pension increased......

1451

Hunt, Livingston, deficiencyappropriation forreimbursement 1054

INDEX .

2117

Hunt, Mitchell, pension increased ..

Page. 1689

Hunter, Arthur,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of

221

Hunter, J. Banks,

pension increased ..

1587

Hunter, James, pension increased .
Hunter, John S., pension increased .
Hunter's Chapel, payment of Court of Claims judgment to trustees of...

1607 1285
216

Huntington, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Huntington, W. Va. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

320

appropriation for

427, 1086

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1205

Huntsville, Ala. , terms of court .

304, 820

Huntsman, John W. B. ,

pension increased ..

1592

Huron, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made

381

Hurrie, Charles, payment to
Hurst, John, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .
Hurt, Charles H., appropriation for
Hussey, Samuel F., payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of

1276 208 268
224

Huston, Mary Shelton, pension .
Hutchinson, Eliza M. (widow) , pension increased .

1396 1747

Hutchinson, John G. ,

pension increased

1328

Hutchinson, Kans. ,

construction of public building authorized

at ...

318

appropriation for

427, 1086

limit of cost increased, public building ... Hutchinson, William S.,
pension increased.. Hyannis, Mass.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor .

1204 1585 333

Hydrographic Office, Navy Department, appropriation for clerks, etc...

154, 888

for draftsmen, engravers, experts, etc. 154, 888

for materials, etc..

154, 888

for expenses, branch offices ..

154, 888

for North Pacific Pilot Chart expenses . 154, 888

for printing and binding

480, 1145

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses .

1073

limit to expenditures

154

Hygienic Laboratory,

advisory board, detail of experts ......

713

appointment of civilian members ; pay,

etc

713

chiefs of division ; director

713

Hyland, Frances,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

211

Hyman, Samuel,

pension increased .

1512

Hymer, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1247

1. Idaho,

Page.

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

162, 898

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

257,993

for survey of boundary line with Mon-

tana ..

1117

deficiency appropriation for surveyor-gen-

eral..

1056

lands granted to .

330

proclamation opening to entry lands of

Fort Hall Indian Reservation ...

1997

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

Idiots,

admission of alien , excluded

1214

Ile au Haut Thoroughfare, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Illegitimate Children, D. C. ,

to take no interest by descent from non

compos mother ..

537

Illinois,

deficiency appropriation for refunding ex-

penses, raising volunteers

586

Illinois and Mississippi Canal,

appropriation for construction of..

462

time extended for construction of bridges ;

rights of way, etc ..

374

Illinois Board of Agriculture,

payment to, Spanish war claim..

488

Illinois, Northern Judicial District,

appropriation for salary of clerk ....... 170 , 906

limit on pay of first assistant district attor-

ney, removed ..

1141

Illinois River, Ill. ,

appropriation for improvement of...........

363

for survey, etc. , of, for navigable water-

way, Lockport to Saint Louis ...

364

Lasalle to Ottawa...

364

engineer board to report, etc

364

for lighting..

433, 1094

Illustrations,

restriction on printing of .....

1147

Imitation Butter,

subject to State, etc. , laws . ..........

193

Imitation Cheese,

subject to State, etc. , laws ..

193

Immediate Transportation of Dutiable Goods,

privileges extended to Niagara Falls, N.  . 955

Portal, N. Dak

780

Tacoma and Seattle, Wash..

636

Wilmington, N. C

760

Immigrant Station (see Ellis Island, N. Y. , Immigrant Station ) .
Immigrant Fund, permanent appropriation from head-

money tax on aliens coming from

foreign ports ...

1213

Immigration,

appropriation for enforcing alien contract-

labor laws, etc ..

450, 1112

for enforcing Chinese exclusion .. 450, 1112

deficiency appropriation for enforcing

Chinese exclusion

7, 29, 1036

Chinese exclusion extended

176

of laborers for expositions permitted .

177

jurisdiction over alien, transferred to Department of Commerce and Labor . 828

Immigration, Bureau of,

appropriation for Commissioner-General,

clerks, etc ........ ..

141 , 875

removal to new quarters authorized ..

1082

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor

826

2118

INDEX .

Immigration, Commissioner- General of, appropriation for, clerks, etc for extra pay, Chinese exclusion .. general duties and authority of .

Page.
141 , 875 450, 1112
1219

officers under control of, to execute Chi-

nese-exclusion laws ..

828

to detail officers to secure information as

to aliens in penal institutions, etc.. 1219 officers for temporary foreign service... 1219

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor..

826

Immigration Commissioners,

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor ......

826

Immigration Inspectors, etc.,

appointment, salaries, etc

1219

of commissioners at the several ports not changed
powers to take testimony, etc .. false statements before, deemed perjury .. decisions favorable to alien's entry subject
to challenge .. final determination by board of special
inquiry Immigration of Aliens,
corrections to be made in enrollment of bill regulating ..
head tax levied on passengers from any foreign port
citizens, Canadians, Cubans, and Mexi-
cans excepted . payment; to constitute immigrant fund . fund to defray all expenses . to be a lien on vessel not levied on transit travel. collection from railroads .. classes of aliens excluded admission exceptions ; political offenses, skilled
labor, professions, and servants ....

1219 1219 1219 1219
1220
1774
1213
1213 1213 1213 1213 1214 1214 1214 1214

importation of females for prostitution

forbidden; punishment

1214

importing contract labor prohibited ; pen-

alties ..

1214

advertising to encourage, prohibited ; offers of States, etc., excepted ..
soliciting by vessel owners prohibited . punishment for illegally landing aliens, etc. transportation companies not to bring
aliens with loathsome disease ; fine for violation ..

1215 1215 1215
1215

rejection by board of special inquiry

final ..

1216

return of alien accompanying a rejected

helpless alien

1216

lists of alien passengers required from

master of vessel ; contents ..

1216

designation for identification ; medical,

etc. , examination ....

1216

medical certificate ; penalty for not de-

livering lists ..

1217

inspection and medical examination on

arrival ..

1217

punishment for permitting illegal landing . 1217

return of aliens illegally landed ; charges,

ete

1218

detention to use as witness ; expenses .. 1218

deportation if illegally landed , within two

years after arrival

1218

within three years ; penalty for refusal

by shipping owners ..

1218

duties of Commissioner-General of Immi-

gration ...

1219

commissioners of immigration ..

1219

immigrant inspectors, etc

1219

Immigration of Aliens - Continued .

Page.

board of special inquiry to determine right

of alien to land .

1220

composition ; hearings; decisions and

appeals

1220

authority required for bond that alien will

not be a public charge .

1220

consent of court necessary to compromise

suits under this act

1220

pending suits not affected

1220

concurrent jurisdiction of circuit and dis-

trict courts ..

1220

immigrant station privileges, disposal of.. 1220

sale of liquors forbidden; receipts

1220

local courts given jurisdiction

1220

rules for entry of aliens by railroads

1221

words "United States" to include all

places in its jurisdiction .............

1221

no intoxicating liquors to be sold in the

Capitol building ...

1221

ports to which illegally entered aliens

shall be returned ...

1221

inconsistent laws repealed ; Chinese ex-

clusion not affected ..

1221

detention of aliens' families arriving with

contagious diseases

1221

anarchists, etc. , not permitted to enter... 1221

penalties for assisting, etc. , such persons

to enter...

1221

naturalization forbidden ; duties of

courts to prevent ...

1222

punishment for procuring illegal .

1222

punishment for aiding, etc.; effect ... 1222

Immigration Service,

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor ....

826

Import Duties, free admission of registered pure-bred animals for breeding; rules, etc.............. . 1023
treaty with Great Britain as to Zanzibar .. 1959

Importers, deficiency appropriation for repayment to 29, 585, 1072

Imports,

of unwholesome food products not to be

delivered

296, 1158

Imprisonment,

penalties for interstate-commerce offenses

abolished

847

Increase of the Navy (see also Naval Estab-

lishment ) ,

new vessels authorized ....

690, 1202

report and estimate of clerks, etc. , on, to

be submitted ....

887

Increasing Water Supply, D. C. (see Water Department, D. C. ) .

Independent Line of Steamers,

deficiencyappropriation for reimbursement 557

Independent Treasury,

appropriation for salaries, assistant treas-

urers' offices ..

143, 877

for special agents, etc

145, 879

for paper for checks, etc for contingent expenses .

145, 879 447, 1109

deficiency appropriation for special agents,

etc

10,559

for contingent expenses

559, 1035

Indian Affairs ( see also Indian Department ) ,

appropriation for Commissioner of, assist-

ant, etc

158,893

Indian Affairs, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, assistant, etc ..

158, 893

for report on plan for educating Indians. 247

to report annually all employees ....

274

INDEX .

2119

Indian Agencies,

Page.

appropriation for Indian agents ...

245 , 982

not available for army officers

246, 983

for buildings and repairs ...

247, 984

for residence, White Earth Reservation,

Minn

247

diversion of funds for specified employees . 274, 1007

superintendents of schools may perform

duties of.....

247,983

Indian Agents, appropriation for civilian............ deficiency appropriation for

245, 982 587

Indian Commission, Citizen,

appropriation for expenses ; rent ....... 248 , 984

Indian Courts,

appropriation for judges..

248, 984

Indian Department,

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc ..

158, 893

for expenses of the

245, 982

for Indian agents at agencies

245,982

not available for army officers

246, 983

detail of training-school superintend-

ents

247,983

for interpreters .

247,983

for inspectors; inspector in Indian Ter-

ritory ....

247,983

traveling expenses ..

247,984

for superintendent of schools ; expenses . 247, 984

for agency buildings, repairs, etc ---- 247,984

White Earth Agency....

247

for contingent expenses ; special agents . 247, 984

for introduction of willow industry

248

special bond for heavy disburse-

ments

984

for citizen commission .

248, 984

for additional farmers, etc.

248, 984

for Indian police

248, 984

for judges, Indian courts . for matrons

248, 984 248, 984

for expenses purchasing supplies for transporting supplies for vaccination, etc

248, 985 248, 985 248, 985

for fulfilling treaty stipulations with and

support of tribes ..

248,985

for miscellaneous supports, etc ..

255, 991

for general incidental expenses

257,993

for commissioners to Five Civilized

Tribes

258, 994

enrollment of Creek children ....

258

rules for descent, etc. , Creek Nation .. 258

expenses; temporary clerks, Indian

office

258, 994

for paying loyal Creek claims .

994

payment to heirs ......

995

S. W. Peel and David M. Hodge ..

995

for Choctaw and Chickasaw citizenship

court expenses

995

transfer of causes, papers, etc ...

995

compensation to attorneys .

995

for town-site expenses, lands of Choc-

taws, etc. , Indian Territory

259,996

for removing intruders, etc.; allotment

to Creeks and Cherokees .

259

status of Eastern Cherokees, etc. , to

be determined .............

996

determination of rights of claimants 996

for flour mill, Pima Agency

260, 996

for sawmill, Klamath Agency

260, 996

for sawmill, Nez Perc Reservation 260, 996

for physician, New York Agency .... 260 , 997

Indian Department- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for removing Wenatchi

Indians

260

for additional allotments, Klamath

Reservation ...

260

for surveying reservations for allotment . 260,

997

for Mississippi Choctaws ..

997

for allotment of irrigable lands , Walker

River Reservation

260

disposal of relinquished lands ..

261

special allotments, Red Lake Reserva-

tion ..

261

patent to Nora G. Hazlett

261

Elizabeth McKinney .

261

Mary and Benny Keith

261

for irrigation expenses; experts .... 261 , 997

for employment, etc. , Pima Agency In-

dians ...

262

for surveying and allotting lands in sev-

eralty ..

262, 997

for surveys, Pine Ridge and Standing

Rock reservations ...

262,997

forcommissioner Puyallup Reservation 262, 997

for transfer, etc. , Indian depredation

claims

262

annual interest to Chickasaws, Senecas,

and Shawnees

262

per capita to Eastern Shawnees and

Senecas

262

transfer of national fund to treasurer

of Chickasaws ; deduction

262

acts of Eastern Shawnees and Senecas

ratified ..

262

sales by United Peorias and Miamies

allowed ..

263

sale of school lands by Quapaws;

school funds ....

997

for surveying, etc. , allotments to Walker

River Reservation Indians ..

997

Uintah and White River Utes ..

997

Spokane Reservation Indians ..

997

consent of Uintahs and White River

Utes ....

998

grazing lands limited

998

Uintah Reservation to be opened to

public entry October 1 , 1904

998

mineral locations on Uncompahgre

Reservation, Utah

998

negotiation for Mesa Verde, Colo.; re-

port

998

for warehouse, Omaha, Nebr.; restric-

tion repealed

263, 999

Saint Louis, Mo

263, 999

payment of warehouse clerks .

263

for payment for clerks; judgment for

New York Indians ...

263

allotment Uintah Reservation

263

for paying claims of Uintah and White

River Utes ..

264

for resurvey, boundaries Devils Lake

Reservation

264

for allotting lands on Sioux reservations 999

for insane asylum, Canton, S. Dak ... 264, 999

for paying certain settlers, Navajo Res-

ervation

264

for attorney , Pueblo Indians ..

265, 999

purchase of lands for Mission Indians . 999

American Surety Company .

999

for payment to Otoe and Missouria In-

dians

265

for bridges, etc. , Omaha and Winnebago

Agency

265

permission to bridge narrows, Devils

Lake, N. Dak

265

2120

INDEX .

Indian Department--Continued.

Page.

appropriation for bridges, Pottawatomie

Reservation

265

for buying land for Oneida Indian

school .

265

claims of Lower Brul Sioux to be in-

vestigated ...

265

distributing "common-herd" cattle to

Crows .

265

irrigation right of way, lands of South-

ern Utes .

266

investigating water supply, Southern

Ute Reservation

266

mineral lands only to be entered,

Spokane Reservation ..

266

for Josef Stainer ..

266

for per capita, Omahas, Iowas, and Sacs

and Foxes, Mo.

267

for cattle, etc. , Sioux Indians of Crow

Creek Reservation ..

267

for attorneys of Wichita, etc., Indians .. 267

for James R. Goss .

267

for Robert F. Thompson

267

for Emmet Cox

267

for claims, Round Valley Reservation .. 268

for Chippewas of Minnesota, stumpage

claims

268

for paying Mille Lac Indians for improve-

ments

268

for survey, etc. , allotments, Net Lake

Reservation ..

268

for supplies furnished Fond du Lac

Indians ...

269

for compiling treaties, etc

1000

for Eastern Cherokees

1000

for settlers, Northern Cheyenne Reser-

vation, Mont .

1000

exchange of lands by settlers on reser-

vations

1000

for S. W. Campbell

1000

for Reuben Perry..

1001

for Huff Jones ..

1001

for Peter La Blanc ..

1001

for William G. Malin

1001

for Joseph H. Lee, sr ..

1001

sale of land to enlarge Absentee Shaw-

nee schools, Oklahoma ..

1001

reservoir, etc. , on Fort Sill school

grounds for Lawton , Okla ......

1001

for support of schools ....

269, 1002

for construction , etc. , of buildings .. 269, 1002

for erecting school for Otoes .

1006

for transportation, etc ...

273, 1006

expenditures to be under Commis-

sioner

273, 1006

maximum per pupil

273, 1006

supplies to be advertised for....

273, 1006

exigencies; irrigation expenses; Indian

labor and supplies

274, 1006

additional pay to field matrons

1006

diversion of surplus funds for subsist-

ence

274, 1007

report; stock cattle; treaty funds ex-

cluded ....

274, 1007

transfer of funds for employees rejection of unsatisfactory bids ..

274, 1007 274, 1007

amount for supplies immediately availa-

ble

274, 1007

annual report of employees ..

274, 1007

sale of lands by heirs permitted ..

275

taxation of lands sold; restriction of

sales

275

western judicial district Indian Territory,

established

275

Indian Department-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for erection of jails in Indian

Territory....

276

condemnation proceedings for jail sites. 276

act making appropriations to take effect

July 1, 1902 ..

742

allotments pro rata to Indians on Potta-

watomie and Kickapoo reservations

if surplus lands insufficient ..... 1007

Seminole Nation government to end March

4, 1906 ; conveyances of land, etc ... 1008

fee-simple patent to Harriet Aungie ... 1008

Lawrence Johnson ..

1008

sales permitted by Tah ko we ah and Kome

ta me ah....

1008

patents in fee to certain Kiowas, Coman-

ches, and Apaches..

1008

Cheyennes and Arapahoes .

1009

Samuel Townsend

1009

permission to trade on Indian reservations

may be issued ..

1009

sale of lands on Red Lake Reservation,

Minn ...

1009

claims for commissions, sale of Osage lands,

Kans

1010

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses, inspectors ...

22

for contingencies ...

22, 1058

for purchasing supplies.......... 22, 22, 31 , 587, 1058

for suppressing smallpox .

22

for expenses, inspectors . 22, 31 , 575, 1058, 1076

for support, Mission Indians.

22

for incidentals, Washington

22

for school, Lawrence, Kans

23

for school, Phoenix, Ariz .

23

for school, Fox and Sac Reservation,

Iowa

23,575

for school, Salem, Oreg ..

23, 31

for transporting supplies ... 31 , 587 , 1074, 1076

for Utes, confederated bands

31

for Sioux, Medawakanton Band

31,589

for incidentals, Utah...

31

for schools ....

31, 1074

for Genoa, Nebr ..

31

for survey of and allotting certain reser-

vations

575

for Kicking Kickapoos .

575

for Flatheads, etc.

575, 1058

for schools, transportation, etc. for school, Fort Mojave, Ariz .. for Walter McM. Luttrell

575, 1058 575
575

for Horace M. Rebok and W. G. Malin . 575

for agents ..

587

for agency buildings .

587

for Sioux, different tribes

587

for incidentals, Montana

587

for Ish tick i you ..

587

for John Newberry.

587

for Edward Leader

590

for payment to Chickasaws .

1058

for Fort Hall Indians ..

1058

for Klamath Agency Indians

1058

for Indian Territory, incidentals

1058

for school, Hayward, Wis ....

1058

for survey and allotting lands in sever-

alty

1058, 1074

for superintendent of schools, expenses . 1058

for commission, Mission Indians, Cal .. 1059

for George S. Redmon .

1059

for payment to Sioux , depredations .. 1074

for George T. Wilson .

1074

for Indian moneys.

1077

for Robert Cut chubby .

1077

for A. B. Johnson

1077

for Aggy Daren ..........

1077

for Ho par kin tubby

1077

INDEX .

2121

Indian Depredation Claims,

Page.

appropriation for clerks, transferring, to

Court of Claims .

262, 893

for defense in `..

474, 1140

deficiency appropriation for judgments .. 27, 584, 1070

for defense in ..

25,577

Indian Farmers,

appropriation for

248, 984

Indian Head, Md. , Naval Proving Ground,

appropriation for public works

677, 1189

Indian Inspectors,
appropriation for pay for, in Indian Territory for traveling expenses, etc ..
deficiency appropriation for for traveling expenses ...

247,983 247
247, 983 31 , 1058 22, 575, 1076

Indian Interpreters, appropriation for

247,983

Indian Island Slough, N. C., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Indian Matrons,

appropriation for

248, 984

additional pay for meritorious services ... 1006

Indian Office,

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc ...

158,893

for clerkson work of Dawes Commission . 259

for clerks allotting lands in severalty... 893

for clerks on depredation claims ..

893

Indian Police,

appropriation for

248, 984

Indian Pupils, appropriation for support, etc for transporting, etc

267, 1002 273, 1006

Indian Reservations,

appropriation for survey, etc. , for allot-

ment to Indians .

260, 997

for irrigation expenses

261 , 997

for survey and completing allotments . 262, 997

for survey, etc. , Pine Ridge and Stand-

ing Rock, S. Dak .

997

for allotting, etc. , lands, Walker River,

Nev

997

Spokane, Wash .

997

for allotting lands on Sioux

999

for paying settlers on Northern Chey-

enne, Mont ...

1000

deficiency appropriation for surveying and allotting ..
for surveying Cheyenne River, Pine Ridge, and Standing Rock
actual settlers on, may exchange lands for vacant land in State or Territory ...
allotting lands on Pottawatomie and Kickapoo, Kans ..
on Lac Courte Oreille, Wis .. on Lac du Flambeau, Wis ..
Cherokee, appraising and allotting of.. Chippewa, in Minnesota, sale of pine tim-
ber .

1074
1074
1000 1007 795 795
717
400

agricultural lands to be opened to home-

stead entries ....

403

allotment to Indians first ..

404

general provisions for right of way, in In-

dian Territory ..

47

in Oklahoma ..

50

jurisdiction of United States courts for

crimes on South Dakota..

793

Kansas, Okla. , to be allotted and sold..

636

Navajo, Ariz., rights of prior settlers con-

firmed .

657

Omaha and Winnebago, Nebr. , time extended for right of way through ... 183
permission to trade on, may be granted ... 1009

Indian Reservations -Continued. sale of lands on Red Lake, Minn .. Spokane, Wash. , unallotted lands to be opened to mining entries .... Umatilla, Oreg., sale of unsold portion ... Uintah, Utah, grazing lands for Indians to be set apart

Page. 1009
744 730
744

allotments to Uncompahgres confined to

irrigable lands; area

744

Walker, River, Nev. , relinquished lands

opened to settlement....

261

grazing lands for Indians to be set apart. 744

Indian River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of.. for lighting

353 433, 1094

Indian Schools,

appropriation for support of. for buildings and sites

269, 1002 269, 1002

for support, etc. , of pupils ..

269, 1002

for additional amount for construction ,

etc

273

for transporting pupils .

273, 1006

deficiency appropriation for Lawrence,

Kans

23

for Phoenix, Ariz ..

23

for Sac and Fox Reservation , Iowa

23

for Salem, Oreg ..

23, 31

for support.

31

for Genoa, Nebr .

31

for transportation for Hayward, Wis for expenses, superintendent of.. for building, Pipestone, Minn

575 , 1058 1058 1058 1059

limit of expense per capita; exceptions. 273, 1006

determination ofper capita allowance . 273, 1006

instruction in hand laundry work ..

1006

revised course of study for, ordered

printed

1768

superintendents may act as agents; bond . 247, 983

supervision of expenditures

273, 1006

Indian Schools, Superintendent of, appropriation for pay, etc.

247,984

Indian Supplies, appropriation for purchasing for transportation

248,985 248, 985

deficiency appropriation for purchasing

22,

31 , 587, 1058

for transportation ........ 31 , 587, 1074, 1076

to be purchased after advertisement ... 273 , 1006

open-market purchases; exigencies irrigation expenses purchases, etc. , from Indians ...

274, 1006 274, 1006 274, 1006

diversion of subsistence funds ; report . 274, 1007

rejection of bids ; temporary purchases . 274, 1007

amount for, immediately available ; de-

livery ..

274, 1007

Indian Territory,

appropriation for Indian inspector in ........... 247

for incidental expenses, Indian Service

in

257,993

for jails in ; location..

276

condemnation proceedings for acquir-

ing sites....

276

for judges, courts in .

169, 905

for court officials

476, 1142

for survey, etc. , town sites

996

for exhibit of products of, Louisiana Pur-

chase Exposition

1108

dependent upon contribution from in-

habitants

1108

deficiency appropriation for court ex-

penses

578, 1062, 1064

for surveying lands

587

for resurvey of Chickasaw lands

587

2122

INDEX .

Indian Territory- Continued . deficiency appropriation for incidental expenses, Indian Service in ..... for United States jails......... additional commissioners and constables
to be appointed appraisement, allotting, etc. , of Cherokee
lands bonds for public improvements may be
issued by towns of 2,000 and more . limit of amount issued

Page.
1058 1063
578
717
200 200

subject to approval of two-thirds of

voters

200

census to determine population ..

200

taxation for interest and principal

200

former issues to be deducted

200

boundaries southern and central judicial

districts changed ..

90

deeds, etc. , recording; laws of Arkansas

made applicable ...

841

deeds and conveyances to be recorded in

United States courts ..

842

duties of clerks and deputies ; fees .

842

compensation; use of excess of fees for

schools

842

transfer of instruments heretofore re-

corded ...

842

acknowledgments to be taken before

clerks, commissioners, and notaries . 842

districts and places of record

842

fees allowed marshals in felony, etc. , cases . 395

lawful possessors of town lots not to be re-

moved .

259

payment to destitute Choctaws and Chick-

asaws in.....

177

penalty forhorse stealing, killing livestock,

etc

792

regulation of coal mines in

632

right of way through, granted Enid and

Anadarko Railway Company .

43

granted to railway companies.

47

general provisions

47

sale of coal and asphalt land of Choctaws

and Chickasaws

653

supplemental agreement with Creeks for

allotment, etc

500

survey, etc. , of town sites by private par-

ties at railroad stations ..

996

use of timber and stone for industrial and

domestic purposes

774

for railroads extended

774

western judicial district established .

275

courts; officers

275

Indian Treaties, etc., appropriation for compilation of ......... 1000

Indian Wars,

pensions to survivors, etc. , of additional.. 399

widows who have not remarried ....

399

record of pay, evidence of service ..

399

prior contracts with attorneys annulled . 400

Indiana,

deficiency appropriation for refunding ex-

penses, raising volunteers .

586

paymentto, forsewer, Indianapolis arsenal . 238

Indianapolis, Ind., appropriation for public building for rent, temporary quarters ..

421 , 1086 421 , 1086

for purchase of land , etc. , military post . 1129

change of military post at, authorized ..

515

appropriation for new site and buildings . 515

expenses of old building to be paid from

regular appropriations

421

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1204

Indians,

Page.

appropriation for vaccination of.

248,985

for representative exhibit of, industry,

etc., at St. Louis Exposition .

445

appraisement and allotment of lands of

Cherokee

717

memorial of Kansas, for division of funds

and lands

636

ratified ....

641

provisions for allotment in severalty, out-

side of Indian Territory .

744

supplemental agreement with Choctaws

and Chickasaws, ratified ......

641

Industrial Commission,

appropriation for salaries and expenses .. 1 powers continued to February 15, 1902 ... 1

books, etc. , of, transferred to Library of

Congress ..

736

Industrial Home School, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses

613,978

for enlargement of girls' dormitories ... 613

deficiency appropriation for maintenance . 1044 Industrial Property,

additional act for international protection

of .

1936

"Industry," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of....

233

Infants (see also Probate Court, D. C. ) ,

acknowledgment and ratification of debts

by.

542

Inflammable-Oil Tanks, etc. , D. C.,

license tax on owners, etc. , of ..

628

Informers,

may recover penalty for importing alien

contract labor ..

1215

Ingram, Pitsar,

pension increased ...

1436

Injuries, D. C.,

to reputation not ground for suit by execu-

tors, etc. , of party

529

Inquiries and Investigations, Senate, appropriation for .. deficiency appropriation for

123, 857 26, 118, 285

Insane Asylum (see Government Hospital for the Insane) .

Insane, D. C.,

appropriation for support of indigent... 613,979

for deporting nonresident ...

614,979

deficiency appropriation for deporting nonresident 1044
Insane Persons, admission of alien, excluded ............................... 1214

Insolvents,

who applyfor receiver, or whose property is put in charge of receiver by a court, 797 declared bankrupts .

Inspector- General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers ; lon-

gevity

509,931

for expert accountant .

512,933

Inspector- General's Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc 150,884

Inspectors, Customs, at New York allowed additional pay..... 753

Inspectors, Indian, appropriation for pay ; traveling expenses.247,983 deficiency appropriation for traveling ex- 22 penses

Inspectors, Interior Department, appropriation for salaries and expenses o1f56, 891 special ..

INDEX .

2123

Institutions, D. C.,

Page.

personal property of incorporated, exempt

from tax ....

620

Instruction Pay,

appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

officers

76, 808

deficiency appropriation for, consuls .. for, diplomatic officers

31 , 1074 1074

Insular Affairs Bureau, War Department,

office of, established ; rank of officer in

charge .

712

appropriation for rent.

886

Insular and Territorial Affairs,

appropriation for judicial expenses ... 474 , 1140

deficiency appropriation for judicial ex-

penses

24

Insular Territory,

registration of Chinese laborers in

177

Insurance Commissioner, D. C.,

salary increased .

534

Insurance Companies, D. C.,

personal tax on, continued

619

reports of officers ..

534

copy of application to be delivered with

life policies

534

Insurance Corporations, compilation, etc. , of information as to .... 828

Insurance Department, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries

594, 959

deficiency appropriation for salaries and

expenses .

11

Insurrectionists, Philippine,

proclamation granting pardon and am-

nesty to ...

2014

exceptions ; special application from con-

victed persons .

2014

oath required

2015

Intercourse Acts, Indian,

appropriation for punishing violations of,

etc

474, 1139

Interest and Sinking Fund, D. C.,

appropriation for

610, 975

use of surplus to purchase bonds, etc ..... 975

Interest, Unlawful (see Usury, D. C. ) .

Interior Department,

appropriation for Secretary, assistants,

clerks, etc ..

156, 891

for board of pension appeals, land in-

spectors, etc.

156, 891

for mechanics, watchmen, engineers,

etc

157, 891

for clerk to sign approval of Indian tribal

deeds .

891

for employees, care of old Post- Office

building

157, 892

for care of census records

157, 892

for assistants, etc. , office of Assistant

Attorney-General ..

157,892

for expenses special inspectors ..

157, 892

for Commissioner of General Land Office,

assistant, clerks, etc ..

157, 892

for mine inspectors .

158, 893

for Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as-

sistant, clerks, etc

158, 893

for Commissioner of Pensions, deputies,

clerks, etc ....

159, 894

for Commissioner of Patents, assistant,

examiners, etc ..

160, 894

for Commissioner of Education , clerks,

etc

161 , 895

for Census Office..

896

for Superintendent of Capitol building

and grounds ...

161 , 896

for contingent expenses .

161 , 897

Interior Department-Continued .
appropriation for stationery for rent .

Page. 161 , 897 162 , 897

for postage stamps . for Biennial Register, 1903

162, 897 897

for surveyors-general and their clerks . 162 , 897

for Indian Department...

245,982

for civil expenses under.

451 , 1113

for repairs to buildings. for Freedmen's Hospital

451 , 1113 1113

for Capitol ... for public lands for Geological Survey for rent, etc., reclamation service

451 , 1113 451 , 1114 454, 1117
1119

for Commissioner of Railroads ; termina-

tion of office

455, 1119

office continued to June 30, 1904 .. for Census Office; reappropriation for Hot Springs Reservation .. for national parks .
for Supreme Court Reports .. for reindeer for Alaska .

1119 456 456, 1119 456, 1119 456, 1119 457, 1120

for Government Hospital for Insane . 457 , 1120

for Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institu-

tion .....

457, 1120

for Howard University

457, 1121

for printing and binding

480, 1145

for pensions ..

62, 761

deficiency appropriation for special inspect-

ors' per diem..

18, 1054

for stationery

19

for contingent expenses

19, 31 , 569, 1054

for preserving census records

19

for Pension Office building

19

for elevators ...

19

for reindeer for Alaska ; E. P. Bertholf. 19

for Columbia Institution for Deaf and

Dumb

19, 1055

for Capitol and grounds .

19, 570, 1055

for Patent Office ..

20, 1054

for Government Hospital for Insane ..

20,

571, 1055

for public lands

20,

31, 571 , 587, 589, 1055, 1074, 1076 , 1077

for Geological Survey .

21 , 31 , 94, 587, 1057

for Indian Department..

22,

31 , 575 , 587 , 589, 1058, 1074, 1076

for pensions...

23, 31 , 587, 590, 1059, 1077

for printing and binding for General Land Office .

27, 285, 1069 31,759, 1054

for electric-light plant.

569

for maps .

569

for Twelfth Census .

570

for investigating pensions

589

for repairs to buildings .

1055

for Philippine census, etc

1059

for national parks .

1060

Census Office transferred to Department of

Commerce and Labor .

826

census records, etc. , transferred to Census

Office ..

767

statistical or scientific work in, may be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor

830

Interments, Army, restriction on reimbursing expenses of.... 936

Internal Revenue (see also War Revenue Re-

peal) ,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc.

138,872

for stamp agents, etc.

139, 873

for salaries, collectors, surveyors, etc. 142, 876

for expenses oleomargarine, tobacco, and

filled-cheese inspection ....

142, 877

2124

INDEX .

5855

Internal Revenue-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for additional force, revenue act .
limit as to special agents for legacy tax agent...
for agents, gaugers, etc. for solicitor
for paper for stamps . for punishing violations of, laws .. for tobacco rebate

war142, 877 142 143 143, 877 167,903
447, 1108 447, 1109
450

deficiency appropriation for agents, etc.. 8,

29, 557, 585, 1040, 1072

for stamp agent..

8

for rebate on tobacco, snuff, and cigars . 8, 1040

for paper for stamps

8, 1040

for refunding taxes

8,557, 585, 1041

for redemption of stamps.

8, 557, 1041

for allowance or drawback

29

for drawback on stills ....

29

for judgments against officers

29,

585, 588, 1072, 1076

for repayment to Continental Fire In-

surance Company, etc ..... 29, 588, 1076

for refund of duplicate taxes .. 29, 588, 1076

for expenses canceling documentary

stamps ..

118

for salaries, etc. , collectors

1072, 1076

for punishing violation of, laws...

1072

articles for Philippines exempt from, taxes . 55

cigar and cigarette tax

97

documentary and proprietary stamp taxes

repealed ...

97

redemption extended

506

drawback on tobacco and snuff on hand

July 1 , 1902

97

imprinted bank checks, etc. , to be returned to owners after cancellation of

stamps ..

736

leakage, etc. , allowance, applied to all

spirits in bond..

770

legacy tax repealed .

97

"mixed flour" defined

99

penalty for attaching lottery tickets, etc. ,

with packages of tobacco, cigarettes,

etc

715

refund of tax on contingent beneficial in-

terests not vested before July 1 ,

1902 ..

406

on export bills of lading

406

on legacies to religious, charitable, etc. ,

uses

406

to Anheuser-Busch Brewing Company . 1652 remission of taxes on collateral securities . 407

  

sales of perique tobacco without paying

tax .

714

special taxes repealed .

96

on tobacco dealers and manufacturers

repealed

97

special taxes, oleomargarine makers, etc.. 194

on manufacturers of renovated or proc-

ess butter

195

on dealers in adulterated butter

195



stamps may be canceled by perforations ..

storekeeper-gaugers established ; duties,

pay ..

492

tax on oleomargarine ; stamps .

194

on adulterated butter

196

on renovated butter

196

stamps required .

196

tobacco tax reduced

96

Internal- Revenue Collectors,

Chinese-exclusion duties transferred from,

to Department of Commerce and

Labor officers

828

Internal Revenue, Commissioner of,

Page.

appropriation for, deputies, etc.

138,872

to prescribe regulations for manufacture and sale of renovated and adulterated

butter ...

195

books, etc. , wholesale dealers in oleomar-

garine, etc..

197

Internal-Revenue Stamps,

beer and tobacco, may have new rate

printed thereon

cancellation by perforation permitted

discount on tobacco, repealed ..

97

documentary and proprietary, repealed .. 97

International rbitration,

convention agreeing to submit disputes to . 1779

reservation by United States

1801

International Associationfor Labor Legislation,

appropriation for contribution .

168,904

International Bridge and Terminal Company,

may bridge Rainy River, Minn .........

801

International Bureau of Weights and Measures,

appropriation for contribution ...

79, 811

International Bureau, Permanent Court of Ar-

bitration, appropriation for share of expenses

81,812

International Bureau to Repress Slave Trade,

appropriation for contribution ...

80, 811

International Commission Canadian Boundary

Waters,

invitation to Great Britain for formation of

joint ....

373

International Commission of Congresses ofNavi-
gation, Permanent, appropriation for expenses of delegates, etc. 485 International Committee of Weights and Meas-
ures, appropriation for expenses of member .... 874 International Conventions,

additional act for protection of industrial

property ..

1936

adapting principles of Geneva Convention

to maritime warfare .

1827

for governing usages of war on land .........

1803

for pacific settlement of disputes ...

1779

International Customs Tariffs Bureau,

appropriation for contribution ..

... 80,811

International Exchanges,

appropriation for expenses

439, 1101

International Geodetic Association,

appropriation for contribution ..

80,812

for expenses, attendance of delegate . 437, 1099

International Industrial Property Bureau,

appropriation for share of expenses International Prison Commission,

161, 895

appropriation for contribution ..

80, 812

International Protection of Industrial Property,

additional act for ..

1936

International Red Cross Conference,

appropriation for expenses of delegates to . 80

International Union of American Republics,

appropriation for expenses, Commercial

Bureau

88,812

deficiency appropriation for

1033

Interoceanic Canal,

treaty with Great Britain as to

1903

Interoceanic Canals,

report of Senate Committee on, ordered

printed .

... 1766

Interpreters,
appropriation for, to legations for consulates ..

77,809 86, 818

deficiency appropriation for, to legations.. 6

to consulates

1074

INDEX .

2125

Interpreters, Indian, appropriation for

Page. 247,983

Interstate Bridge and Street Railway Company,

name changed to Omaha Bridge and

Terminal Railway Company...

204

Interstate Commerce,

requirements for automatic brakes, coup-

lers, etc. , extended to Territories,

District of Columbia, etc

943

investigation, etc. , of corporations engaged

in

828

Interstate Commerce Commission,

appropriation for Commissioners, secre-

tary

444, 1107

for expenses..

444, 1107

for arbitration railway employees' dif-

ferences ...

444, 1107

for enforcing safety-brake, etc. , law . 444, 1107

deficiency appropriation for Edward A.

Moseley

11

for expenses

1042 , 1075

automatic signal crossings in Indian Ter-

ritory subject to approval by

50

may increase percentage of cars operated

with train brakes ..

943

precedence given to cases prosecuted in

name of.......

849

Interstate Commerce Laws,

for securing testimony, etc. , vested in Com-

missioner of Corporations

828

Interstate Commerce Regulations,

appropriation for special counsel , etc. , to

enforce

904

corporations liable to penalties for violat-

ing

847

penalty for not filing nor observing tariffs . 847

for discriminations, rebates, etc.

847

imprisonment penalties abolished .

847

jurisdiction as to offenses..

847

common carrier liable for acts of agents,

etc

847

published rates to be adhered to .

848

parties who may be included in proceed-

ings to enforce

848

summary proceedings in equity to enforce

tariffs, prohibit discriminations, etc. 848

duty of district attorneys ..

848

suits for damages not precluded .

848

compulsory attendance of witnesses .

848

not excused by claim of incrimination .. 848

freedom from prosecution for testifying,

etc ....

848

precedence to cases prosecuted under direc-

tion of Attorney- General ........ 823,849

conflicting laws repealed ; pending cases

not affected

849

Interstate Improvement and Construction Com-

pany, claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

ofagents for, referred to Court of Claims ;

payment ...

764

Intoxicating Liquors, sale of, in uncivilized Pacific islands forbidden; punishment ......... at immigrant stations prohibited not allowed in the Capitol building

33 1220
1221

Invasion, militia to be called out to suppress .....
Inventions, provisions modified for applying for patents in this country and abroad ....
Investment Companies, D. C., license tax on; exemption ....

776
1225 624

Invoices, Consular, destruction of, after five years.

Page. 854

Involuntary Bankrupts, mining corporations may be adjudged.... 797
Iona Island, N. Y. , Naval Magazine,
appropriation for public works . .... 677 , 1189 Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for refunding ex-

penses, raising volunteers ....

586

Iowa City, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1086

Iowa Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 250, 986

per-capita payment directed ..

267

Ireland, David A.,

pension increased .

1251

Irish, Isabella H. (widow) ,

pension ...

1459

Iron Ore Deposits,

report on Lake Superior region, ordered

printed

1763

Ironclads, Light Draft,

claims for extra compensation referred to

Court of Claims ...

244

Ironton, Ohio,

construction of public building at, author-

ized ; nominal site

317

appropriation for ..

426, 1086

Irrigation,

appropriation for expenses, Indian reser-

vations

261 , 997

for investigations by Department of

Agriculture

302, 1165

for investigation of water supply, etc. 455, 1118

reclamation fund for, established from

sales of public lands

388

reservation for educational purposes

388

supplying deficiency .......

388

location of storage, etc. , works ; reports

388

withdrawal of lands from public entry

388

homestead entries allowed; conditions . 388

contracts for construction

389

notice of lands irrigable ; charges, etc

389

limitation of day's work; Mongolian labor

prohibited

389

requirements of entrymen ; limitations .. 389

payments annually; forfeiture ....

389

to go to reclamation fund ..

389

use of reclamation fund for maintenance

of works

389

transfer of works to owners of irrigated

lands; title reserved

389

condemnation of property needed ; pay-

ment ...

389

laws of States or Territories not affected .. 390

interests in interstate waters not affected . 390

limit of right to use water .

390

expenditure of funds ..

390

temporary excess ; restoration

390

equalization in ten-year periods

390

authority of Secretary of the Interior; reg-

ulations, etc...

390

statistics to beprepared by Census Bureau . 747

Irrigation in California,

additional copies of bulletin on, ordered

printed

1768

Irvine, James,

pension increased .

1465

Irwin, Oceana B. (widow),

pension increased ..

1463

"Isabella," Snow,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

220

2126

INDEX .

Isbell, Miller,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Ish tick i you, Chickasaw Indian,
deficiency appropriation for paying estate of

Page. 208
587

Isles of Shoals, Me. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 331
Isthmian Canal,

purchase of Panama Canal and Railroad ,

authorized .

481

right of way, etc. , from Colombia.

481

jurisdiction, etc. , to be acquired

482

appropriation for canal properties ..

482

for right of way, etc

482

construction authorized

482

harbors, etc..

482

alternative route on failure to secure title,

etc

482

authority to secure control of canal route

from Nicaragua and Costa Rica .... 482

construction of Nicaragua Canal .

482

appropriation for concessions and rights 482

surveys, and employees, authorized ...

483

use of Lake Nicaragua and San Juan River. 483

appropriation for general expenses ..

483

construction contracts authorized ; limit

for either route ..

483

guarantee of use to country ceding rights. 483

creation of Isthmian Canal Commission

483

composition, etc.

483

issue of 2 per cent bonds to defray expendi-

tures

484

treaty with Great Britain as to

1903

Isthmian Canal Commission,

appointment ; composition

483

compensation ; additional engineers, etc .. 483

duties ; reports; offices .

483

Italy,

appropriation for ambassador to ..... 76, 807

for secretary of embassy . for second secretary

77,808 77, 808

deficiency appropriation for heirs of subjects of, killed, etc. , at Erwin, Miss . 1032
Itasca County, Minn., bridge authorized across Rainy River in.. 801
Ithaca, N. Y. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1086

Ivey, Mary J. (widow) ,

pension ..

1581

J.

Jack, John H., pension increased .
Jackman, Ann M. (widow) , pension increased .
Jacko, Amanda (widow), pension
Jackson, Andrew, pension increased
Jackson, Epsie, payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of .
Jackson, James T. ,
pension .. Jackson, Miss. ,
limit of cost increased, public building ... appropriation for
Jackson, Oliver C. , pension increased ..
Jackson, Richard, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1360 1694 1293 1675
213 1596 312 425 1730
221

Jackson, Willard A. ,

Page.

pension increased .

1687

Jacksonville, Fla.,

limit of cost increased, public building . 315, 1203

appropriation for

425, 1086

deficiency appropriation for public building 1039 allowance of additional land for public

building; location ...

1231

Jacksonville, Il.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

427, 1086

Jacobs, Elizabeth (widow),

pension .

1575

Jacobs, J. W. ,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

557

Jail, D. C.,

appropriation for warden....

610, 976

for maintenance and support of prison-

ers ..

610,976

deficiency appropriation for support of

prisoners ..

561 , 1044

salary of warden

542

Jails, United States,

appropriation for repairs .

476, 1142

James, Duncan,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 216

James, Edward W., payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 212

James, Hannah E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1566

James, Hiram,

pension increased .

1534

James, John S.,

pension ...

1343

James, Thomas E. ,

pension increased .

1383

James River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of

351

for lighting

433, 109%

Jamestown, N. Y. ,

appropriation for public building ..... 421 , 1086

limit of cost increased, public building ... 313

Janesville, Wis.,

appropriation for public building

421

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing .

1038

limit of cost increased, public building ......... 1205

Janitors, Public Buildings,

appropriation for assistant custodians and . 448,

1110

deficiency appropriation for

28

Janitors to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives .

125,859

Jantzon, Mrs. E. L. , paymentto ....
Japan, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation for second secretary
for interpreter to legation . for rent, legation ...
for improving legation grounds for interpreters at consulates

490
76, 807 77,808 77,808 77,809 78,810
810 86,818

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ing, Tokyo

5

Jarvis, David H.,

gold medal of honor to, relief of Arctic

whaling fleet ...

492

Jasper, Obed D.,

pension increased .

1378

Jefferson Memorial (see Thomas Jefferson

Memorial Association) .

INDEX.

2127

Jefferson, Thomas,

Page.

calendars of correspondence, ordered print-

ed ...

1768

printing ordered of " Morals of Jesus of

Nazareth," by ....

1769

Jefferson, Tex.,

terms of court

69

Jenkins, Evaline (widow) ,

pension increased .

1439

Jennings, Henry,

pension increased ..

1522

"Jenny," Snow,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

224

Jerden, John,

payment to

487

Jersey City, N. J.,

examination of public building, directed ;

report

326

Jerusalem, Syria,

appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Jicarrilla Agency, N. Mex.,

appropriation for Indian agent at

246

"Joanna," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.......

219

Johnson, A. B. ,

deficiency appropriation for paying estate

of

1077

Johnson City, Tenn. ,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

472, 1136

for construction

1136

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ; construction ....

13

Johnson, D. T. , Fred C. Handy, and Percy W.
Handy, appropriation for paying estate of....... 268

Johnson, Edward,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrators of

226

Johnson, Edwin P.,

pension increased .

1497

Johnson, Ellen (widow) ,

pension

1750

Johnson, Gilman B.,

pension increased..

1693

Johnson, Laurence, fee simple patent to issue, Indian lands .. 1008

Johnson, Nelson,

pension ..

1457

Johnson, Peter,

pension increased .

1622

Johnson, Kichard W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

213

Johnson, Thornton,

payment to ...

490

Johnson, William G.,

pension increased ..

1319

Johnston, James,

claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment.

764

Johnston, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

209

Johnston, James F. P.,

pension

1357

Johnston, Lambert,

pension increased ..

1709

Johnston, Martha A. ( widow),

pension increased .

1525

Johnston, Sanders W.,

pension increased ..

1745

Johnston, Thomas, jr.,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

229, 233

Johnston, William, pension .
Johnstown, Pa., purchase authorized of public buildingsite . appropriation for ....

1562
320 429

Joliet, Ill. ,

appropriation for public building ............

421

Joliet Steel Company,

claim referredto Court of Claims ; payment. 764

Jones and Clark,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner .. 223 , 226

Jones, Andrew R.,

pension increased .

1438

Jones, Betsey (widow),

pension increased ..

1668

Jones, Dallas,

deficiency appropriation for expenses, etc. 570

Jones, Huff,

appropriation for payment to ................

1001

Jones, J. H.,

deficiency appropriation for services ... 580, 1067

Jones, James,

pension increased.........

1652

Jones, John C.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229, 230

Jones, John H.,

payment to legal representatives of

241

Jones, Julia E. (widow),

pension increased .

16-41

Jones, R. A. ,

payment to...

490

Jones, Samuel G.,

lineal rank in cavalry corrected........

805

Joplin, Mo., appropriation for public building ..... 421 , 1086 limit of cost increased, public building ....... 312

Jordan, Julia A. ( mother),

pension .

1675

Joseph, Annie E. (widow),

pension increased .

1427

Joseph, James H., pension increased

1534

Joseph's Band, Nez Perc Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 256 , 992

Journal, Frederick,

pension increased ..

1732

Judge-Advocate-General, Navy,

appropriation for clerks, office of....... 153 , 887

Judge-Advocate- General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers; longev-

ity

510, 932

Judge- Advocate- General's Office, War Depart-

ment, appropriation for clerks, etc.

150, 884

Judges, appropriation for Supreme Court for circuit ..
for district

169, 905 169,905 169,905

Judges, Retired, appropriation for

169,905

Judgments,

deficiency appropriation for paying, Court

of Claims

27,583, 1070

for paying, Indian depredation claims .. 27, 584, 1070

for paying, United States courts .. 28 , 584, 1070

for paying, against internal-revenue

officers

29, 585 , 588 , 1072, 1076

2128

INDEX.

Judgments- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for paying, against

District of Columbia .

561 , 1043

for supreme court, D. C. , Potomac Flats

cases ..

1071

for paying Manila Bay prize money.

1072

Judgments against District of Columbia,

interest not altered by code

610

Judgments, D. C.,

agreements to stay, to be in writing.

542

liens on equitable interests enforced in

equity

542

Judicial Expenses (see also United States Courts),

appropriation for Judkins, Abner M.,
pension increased .

169,905 1598

Juneau, Alaska,

deficiency appropriation for court-house

and jail ..

1063

granted lands for school ..

773

Kaibab Indians, Utah,

Page.

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 256,992 Kaiser, Julius A. ,

may be appointed passed assistant engin-

eer, Navy retired list....

1571

Kalamazoo, Mich.,

limit of cost increased, public building .

315

appropriation for Kalamazoo River, Mich.,

425, 1086

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tract

343, 1126

Kall Tract, D. C. ,

assessment against, for benefits, canceled .. 805 Kankakee, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

427, 1086

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1204

Kanouse, Edward M.,

pension increased ..

1310

Juries, D. C. ,

Kansas,

peremptory challenges allowed District . under former laws to serve out their terms .
Jurors, D. C., drawing, in 1902 . examination as to competency of special

536 public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

735

gation ..

388

Kansas City, Kans. ,

2 terms of court at ..

849

Kansas City, Mo. ,

panel, on their voir dire....

523

exempt after 30 days' service in a year... 528

Jurors, United States Courts,

bridge authorized across Missouri River

at

56,918

sale of old custom -house authorized ; min-

appropriation for fees.. for meals, etc ....

476, 1141 476, 1141

imum price

322, 1209

use of proceeds for enlarging post-office,

deficiency appropriation for fees

32,

etc. , building ....

1209

284, 590, 1066, 1075

limit of cost; contracts

1209

fees increased

396 Kansas City, Northeastern and Gulf Railway

Jury Commissioners, United States Courts,

Company,

appropriation for compensation ... Justices ofthe Peace,

476, 1141

may bridge Missouri River at Parkville,

Mo

102

appropriation for fees, acting as commis-

Kansas City Outer Belt and Electric Railroad

sioners ..

476, 1141

Company,

Justices ofthe Peace, D. C.,

may bridge Missouri River

754

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 609, 975 Kansas City, Parkville and Saint Joseph Rail-

deficiency appropriation for salaries and

way Company,

expenses .. number reduced to six ..

12 may bridge Missouri River at Kansas City,

520

Mo ..

918

forbidden to practice law.

521 Kansas Indians,

removal of causes to nearest justice stricken out
authorized to issue writs of execution ; time limit of judgments ..
issue of execution by another justice in

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 250, 987

521 allotment of lands, sales, etc ..

637

pro rata division of tribal funds .

638

521 adjustment of claims against United States. 640 Kansas Indians, Okla.,

case of inability to act.

521

dockets, etc. , of retiring, to be delivered

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 256, 992 memorial for division of lands and funds.. 636

to successor; penalty .

521

accepted, ratified , and confirmed.........

641

actions pending January 1 , 1902, contin-

Kansas Judicial District,

ued ...

522 terms of court, Kansas City ...

849

dismissal of appeals, and further appeals

Karmany, Uriah S. ,

stricken out

523 pension increased .

1253

serving as judge of police court to receive

Kaste, William,

no further pay

609 pension ..

1412

fees as notaries to be turned over to col-

Kauffman, Joseph A. ,

lector of taxes ..

609 pension increased .

1718

Kaw River, Kans.,

K.
Ka ka keese, allotment of lands to, on Red Lake Reservation, Minn
Ka kee ka kee sick, allotment of lands to, on Red Lake Reservation , Minn ..
Kaempfer, Ada S. (widow), pension .

261 261 1646

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 378

Kaylor, Abram,

payment to..

489

Keen, John,

pension increased .........

1734

Keenan, Martha V. (widow),

pension increased..

1761

Keene, T. A.,

payment to..

1453

Kehl, Germany,

Kafer, Gottlieb, pension increased ...

appropriation for consul at

1618

for clerk hire ...

83,815 86, 818

INDEX .

2129



Kehn, John H., pension increased ..

Page. 1705

Keiffer, D. B. ,

payment to..

489

Keith, Fordyce M.,

pension increased ..

1688

Keith, Mary and Benny, patents in fee to , for lands in Oklahoma .. 261

Keith, William, pension increased .
Keller, Mary B. ( widow) , pension increased ..
Kelley, John, second, pension increased .

1738 1579 1584

Kelley, William, pension increased .
Kelley, William, pension increased .
Kellough, Richard M., pension increased .
Kelly and Moses, appropriation for
Kelly, Dennis J., pension ...
Kelly, Hezekiah, payment of French spoliation claim to ad-
ministrator of Kelly, Mary E. (widow) ,
pension increased ... Kendall, William,
payment to legal representatives of Kendig, La Myra V. (widow),
pension increased .. Kendrick, Martha E. (widow),
pension Kennebec River, Me.,

1460 1535 1483 269 1453
218 1335 1611 1317 1468

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts

348

for enforcing anchorage regulations,

Bath

1097

Kenneday, David J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .. ..

212

Kennedy, John W.,

payment to, for services ..

238

Kennedy, Susan (widow) ,

pension

1600

Kenny, John, jr.,

deficiency appropriation for repairs, naval

hospital, New York....

1052

Kenny, William,

pension .

1726

Kenosha, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

Kenora and Big Sandy Railroad Company,

granted right of way, Locks 2 and 3, Big

Sandy River, W. Va ......

1030

Kent, Susan ( widow) ,

pension

1644

Kentucky,

deficiency appropriation for raising volun-

teers .

1078

Kentucky Eastern Judicial District,

terms established at Catlettsburg .

58

Kentucky River,

appropriation for improvement of ..... 462, 1124

Kepler, William,

pension increased .

1657

Kerbey, Joseph A. ,

pension increased .

1525

Kerr, Dennis M.,

deficiency appropriation for services .. 580, 1067

Kerr, George,

pension increased ..

1530

Kerr, Oliver, pension increased..
Kershner, Edward,

Page. 1398

appointment on Navy retired list authorized
return from President of bill for relief of,
requested Ketland, Thomas and John,

1278 1766

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 218
Kewaunee, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345

keeper's dwelling at light-house, author-

ized

74

appropriation for...

431

Keweenaw Bay,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way to Lake Superior ......

462

Key, Mary F. ( widow),

pension increased...

1294

Key West, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of north-

west entrance to harbor ....

339

for public works, naval station ... 674, 1187

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made ..

377

Keyport Harbor, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 350

Keys, Sarah J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ...

209

Kickapoo Indian Reservation, Kans. , appropriation for Indian school ..

271 , 1004

pro rata allotment, if surplus lands insuffi-

cient ..

1007

Kickapoo Indians in Kansas,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 251 , 987 for paying estate of deceased Indians... 987
Kickapoo Indians, Okla., appropriation for support, etc. , of..... 256, 992
Kickapoo Indians, Mexican, appropriation for agricultural articles ..... 256
Kicking Kickapoo Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 256 , 992

deficiency appropriation for civilization,

etc

575

Kidd, Thomas,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executors of..

212

Kidder, Augustus L. ,

pension increased ..

1754

Kile, Oliver W. , pension increased ..
Killam, Lewis C., pension increased .

1752 1263

Killough, Nancy A. (widow ),

pension

1601

Kimball, Edmund,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

232

Kimball, William A.,

pension increased ..

1574

Kimberly, Nannie M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1529

Kimble, Emma L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1435

Kindy, Abram O. ,

pension increased .

1361

King, Cappa (daughter) , pension ...
King, George A., pension increased .

1510 1578

King, George W. ,

land purchased by, released from alien

forfeiture

1360

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -57

2130

INDEX .

487

King, Henry,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

widow of....

214

King, Henry B.,

payment to

487

King, Leon,

pension increased .

1511

King, Mary (mother) ,

pension .

1321

King, Minnie E. ( widow),

pension increased .

1269

King, Richard,

payment to

491

King, Shepherd H. , pension increased ..
King, William , pension increased .

1611 1727

Kingman, Dan C.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

556

Kingsbury, Hiram H.,

pension increased .

1295

Kingsbury, Lemuel,

pension .

1664

Kingsley, Hiram S.,

pension increased .

1258

Kingston, Jamaica, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .....

82, 814 86, 818

Kingston, N. Y. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

427, 1086

Kingston, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

84, 817

Kinney, Ida M. (widow) ,

pension

1544

Kinnickinnick River, Wis. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 384

Kinston and Carolina Railroad Company,

may bridge Neuse River, Kinston, N. C .. 180

Kinston, N. C. , bridge authorized across Neuse River at .. 180

Kiowa Agency, Okla., appropriation for Indian agent at .

246, 982

Kiowa and Comanche Indian Agency, Okla.,

proclamation restoring premises to public

domain

2007

Kiowa, etc., Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of .....

991

additional allowance, public works, Okla-

homa, on lands ceded by.

506

fee simple patents to certain ..

1008

Kiper, James D.,

pension increased .

1571

Kirkham, John A. ,

pension ..

1513

Kirksville, Mo. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

428, 1087

Kirwan, John,

deficiency appropriation for services

573

Kirwan, Thomas,

pension increased .

1542

Kiskadden, William,

claim for damages referred to Court of

Claims ...

243

Kissimmee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

353

Kitson, G. H.,

payment to..

238

Kizer, Henry,

payment to.

487

Klamath Agency, Oreg.,

Page.

appropriation for Indian agent at for support, etc. , of Indians at.
for sawmill..

246 256,992 260,996

deficiency appropriation for support of In-

dians of...

1058

Klamath Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

allotment to Indian children on

260

Klepper, John B. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to. 215

Klugh, J. F. ,

payment to

489

Knapp, Byron C. ,

pension increased .

1714

Knapp, Christine ( widow) ,

pension increased . :.

1710

Knapp, William, Daniel A. Hall, alias,

pension increased .

1430

Knepple, William H. ,

pension increased .

1642

Knestrict, Benjamin,

pension increased .

1638

Knight, Eliza (widow) ,

pension increased .

1546

Knights, Hinkley, G.,

pension increased .

1447

Knights of Pythias,

loan of tents for encampment, San Fran-

cisco, Cal

187

Knode, William H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

210

Knoop, John T. ,

pension increased .

1631

Knowles, Daniel C. ,

pension increased .

1242

Knowles, Hannah T. ( widow),

pension

1425

return requested from the President of,

pension bill .

1767

Knoxville, Lafollotte and Jellico Railroad Com-

pany, may bridge Clinch River at Dossett, Tenn. 793

Knoxville, Tenn.,

examination of public building directed ;

report

326

Knoxville Whig,

deficiency appropriation for owners ...... 556

Kobe, Japan, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

82,814 86,818

Koerner, Gotthard,

pension increased .

1542

Kohr, Daniel S.,

payment to..

489

Kohr, Daniel S., payment to, trustee Mennonite Church ... 489

Kohr, Michael,

payment to

488

Koops, Bertha R. (widow),

pension increased ...

1581

Kome ta me ah, Kiowa Indian,

may sell half of her allotment

1008

Koochiching Company,

time extended for dam, Rainy River,

Minn ...

485

Korea, appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation for interpreter to legation or interpreters at consulates for marshals, consular courts in . for expenses of prisoners . for prison keeper .

76,807 77,808 78,809 86,818 87,819 87,819 87,819

INDEX .

2131

Kountz, William,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

209

Krause, Alice D. H. (widow ), pension
Krohn, Philip, pension increased
Kropf, Frederick, pension increased .

1402 1706 1576

Kuhn, Mahala Jane (daughter),

pension ..

1361

Kunkel, C. A. ,

payment to

489

Kunselman, William, pension increased.
Kurth, John B., pension increased .
Kuy-Scheerer Company,

1417 .1289

deficiency appropriation for repairs, naval

hospital, New York..

1052

"Kvarven," Norwegian Steamship,

deficiency appropriation for owners of....

7

Kyle, Hon. James H., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for widow

26

L.

La Abra and Weil Claims,

deficiency appropriation for repayment to

Mexico in..

5

La Blanc, Peter,
appropriation for back pay La Guayra, Venezuela,
appropriation for consul at La Pointe Agency, Wis.,

1001 83, 815

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246, 982

La Rochelle, France,

appropriation for consul at ......

84, 817

Labor, Alien Contract,

appropriation for enforcing, laws ...... 450, 1112

deficiency appropriation for enforcinglaws .

7

importation of, unlawful; penalty ...

1214

Labor Interests,

duty of Department of Commerce and

Labor as to..

826

Labor Legislation , International Associationfor,

appropriation for contribution ....

168, 904

Lac Courte Oreille Indian Reservation, Wis.,

allotment of lands in severalty to Indians

on .

795

Lac du Flambeau Indian Reservation, Wis.,

allotment of lands in severalty to Indians

on ....

795

Ladd, Augusta M.,

payment to..

236

Ladd, Eliphalet,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Lady Franklin Bay Expedition,

certain survivors to be enlisted in signal

corps, and retired ..

1455

Lady, John,

payment to...

487

"Lady Walterstorff," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

218

Lafayette, Marquis de, appropriation for expenses of family, dedication of Rochambeau Monument .. 738

Lafferty, James D.,

pension increased ....

1417

Lager Beer,

internal-revenue tax on, reduced ..................

96

Lake Champlain, Vt., appropriation for improvement of narrows. 348

Lake City, Minn.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made ;

harbor of refuge

380

Lake Erie,

appropriation for dredge, improving harbors; from harbor appropriations.. 342

for light-ship, southeast shoal , Point au

Pelee Passage ....

431 , 1095

report on dam at mouth of

373

Lake George Channel, Mich.,

diversion of funds from Saint Marys Falls

to, repealed ...

362

Lake Nicaragua,

may be used for Isthmian canal ........

483

Lake Pepin,

appropriation for harbor of refuge, Missis-

sippi River at

365

Lake, Sarah H. (widow) , pension increased ..
Lake Superior,

1369

appropriation for improvement of water-

way from Keweenaw Bay

462

report on iron ore deposits of, region, or-

dered printed ...

1763

Lake Traverse, Minn. and S. Dak. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made; to improve Minnesota River....... 379

Lake Union, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way, Puget Sound and Lake Wash-

ington

347

Lake Washington, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of waterway, Puget Sound and Lake Union.
Lalley, Sabina (mother) , pension
Lamb, Jehu C.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of .
Lamb, Mary A. (daughter) , pension .
Lambden, Samuel J., pension increased .
Lance, Charles Edward Price, alias Edward Price,
pension increased..
Land and Improvement Companies, D. C., license tax on
Land Court (see Court of Private Land Claims) .
Land Decisions, printing ordered, volumes 10 and 20 to 31 .
Land Districts,
establishment of, in Philippines, authorized

347 1646 213 1238 1350 1437 628
1767 704

Land Offices (see Public Lands ) . Land Warfare,
international convention governing usages of
regulations

1803 1811

Lander, Peter,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Landers, Hester A. R. ( widow),

pension increased .

1680

Landers, W. N.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1064

Lands,

sale of, acquired by devise, authorized ... 1112

statement of all, used by Government to

be prepared ..

432

Lands, etc., appropriation for custody , etc......... 450, 1112

2132

INDEX .

Lands in Severalty to Indians,

Page.

appropriation for surveying and allot-

ting

260, 997

for surveying reservations and complet-

ing allotments ....

262, 997

for expenses allotting, Walker River

Reservation

997

Uintah and White River Utes, Utah . 997

Spokane Reservation, Wash ..

997

deficiency appropriation for survey and

allotting

1058

conveyance in fee by adult heirs permit-

ted

275

subject to taxation after sale .

275

restriction on sale

275

statute of limitations to apply in actions

for recovery of patented..

284

not applicable for one year .

284

provisions for allotting, outside of Indian

Territory

744

Lands, Philippines,

bonds authorized for acquiring, from re-

ligious orders, etc ...

706

disposition of lands acquired ; use of pro-

ceeds

707

Lane, David A. ,

granted honorable discharge

1370

Lane, Henry,

granted honorable discharge

1354

Lane, Laurentus,

pension increased ..

1248

Lane, Theodore,

pension increased .

1258

Langford, B. M.,

payment to ..

490

Langley, John W., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 578

L'Anguille River, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of......

357

Langworthy, R. Sherman,

pension increased ..

1458

Laramie, Wyo.,

construction of public building author-

ized at .

320

appropriation for

428, 1087

Larchmont, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Laredo, Tex.,

construction of public building author-

ized at ..

320

appropriation for

428, 1087

terms of court .

68

Larimer, Richard A. ,

pension increased ..

1658

Larrabee, Cyrenus,

pension increased .

1416

Larzalere, William,

pension increased .

1337

Lasher, Helen F. (widow) , pension ..
Lassiter, F. R., deficiency appropriation for contested election expenses ..

1401 582

Latimer, Miss M. L. ,

payment to

490

Latour, Lewis G.,

pension increased .

1460

Lauchly, John H. ,

pension increased ..

1497

Laughlin, John,

pension increased ..

1543

Laundries, D. C.,

license tax on

628

Laraca Bay, Tex. , preliminary examination of, to be made .. 382

Law Library,

Page.

appropriation for custodian, assistants,

etc

130, 864

Lawrence, Abel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Lawrence, Kans. ,

appropriation for Indian school ; addi-

tional land ..

271 , 1003

deficiency appropriation for Indian school. 23

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for .

428, 1087

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1204

Lawrence, Lucinda ( daughter ),

pension

1746

Lawrence, Richard A. ,

pension increased.

1280

Laurence, Warren W. H. ,

pension increased....

1394

Laws of Congress,

appropriation for editing ....

132,867

deficiency appropriation for expenses edit-

ing, 1st session , 57th Congress

1032

assistant clerk .

1032

Laws of the United States,

general, not applicable to Philippine Is-

lands

692

Lawson, John F.,

payment to

1698

Lawton, David E. ,

pension increased ..

1733

Lawton, Okla.,

additional allowance for public works

from sale of lots

506

may enter land of Fort Sill Indian sub-

agency for cemetery

2026

may maintain reservoir, etc. , grounds of

Fort Sill Indian school ..

1001

Lazear, Mabel H. (widow),

pension .

1260

Leach, Christianna (widow ),

pension increased .

1449

Leach, Morton A. ,

pension increased .

1599

Leader, Edward,

deficiency appropriation for stock stolen

by Indians

590

Leadville, Colo.,

appropriation for public building

1087

for fish hatchery .

1106

limit of cost increased , public building .... 315

Leaf River, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 355

League Island, Pa. ,

appropriation for public works, navy-

vard ..

673, 1186

Leamy, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

222, 225

Leary, Augusta Neville (widow),

pension increased .

1525

Leavenworth, Kans. ,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ..

470, 1134

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home...

14,564, 1049

Leaves of Absence,

appropriation for, Government Printing

Office employees

481, 1146

deficiency appropriation for, Government

Printing Office employees ..

27, 1069

allowed railway mail clerks

115

Weather Bureau employees outside of

Washington ....

287

INDEX .

2133

Leaves of Absence-Continued .

Page.

allowed Animal Industry Bureau employ-

ees outside of Washington ..

290

Forestry Bureau employees outside of

Washington ...

295

Lebanon, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

319

appropriation for

428, 1087

Leckie, Helen Olivia (widow) ,

pension increased .

1728

Ledyard, Bessie (widow ),

pension ..

1637

Lee and Gordon Mill Company,

payment to

487

Lee, Charles N.,

pension increased .

1250

Lee County, Ark. ,

bridge_authorized across Saint Francis

River in

834

Lee, Daniel F.,

granted honorable discharge

1698

Lee, Earnest A. ,

appropriation for property, Navajo Reser-

vation ..

264

Lee, James, and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment 764

Lee, Joseph H., sr. , appropriation for property purchased ....
Lee, Julia (mother) ,
pension Lee, Patrick,
pension increased .

1001 1602 1312

Lee, Rufus V., pension increased .

1516

Leech Lake Agency, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246, 982

Leech, William,

payment to.

1758

Leeds, England,

appropriation for consul at

..... 83, 815

Leepard, Sarah A. (widow) , pension increased .
Leffingwell, Benajah, payment of French spoliation claim to administrators of

1629 218

Leffingwell, Hiram S. ,

pension increased ..

1546

Leffingwell, Samuel L. , pension increased .
Legacies, tax on, repealed ... collection of unpaid tax on legal proceedings . penalty for refusal, etc. refund of tax on religious, etc

1383
97 .98 98
99 406

Legal Holidays, D. C.,

effect of..

543

Legal Tender, Philippines,

gold coins of the United States to be; rate .. 952

Legations,

appropriation for repairs to buildings ... 80, 812

Leghorn, Italy,

appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Expenses,

appropriations for legislative expenses .. 120, 854

for Senate ....

121 , 854

for Capitol police .

124, 857

for Congressional Directory for House of Representatives .

124, 858 124, 858

for Public Printer, etc

128, 862

for Library of Congress for Botanic Garden

128, 862 131 , 865

appropriations for executive expenses .. 132 , 866

for President

132,866

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Expenses-- Page.

Continued.

appropriation for Executive Office . for Civil Service Commission ..

132, 866 132, 866

for Department of State..

132 , 866

for Treasury Department. collecting internal revenue Independent Treasury

133 , 867 142,876 143, 877

mints and assay offices . government in the Territories

145, 879 147, 882

for War Department ....

149, 883

public buildings and grounds ...... 151 , 886

State, War, and Navy Department

building

152, 886

for Navy Department .

153, 887

for Interior Department. Biennial Register .

156, 891 897

surveyors-general .

162, 897

for Post-Office Department

164, 899

for Department of Justice .

165, 903

for Department of Labor ..

168, 904

appropriations for judicial expenses . for United States courts ..

169, 905 169, 905

for Court of Claims ..

170, 906

pay of assistant messengers, etc. , rated . 171 , 906

temporary clerks, etc. , war with Spain, transferred to classified service .... 171

incompetent or incapacitated employees

not to be paid .

171

permanently incapacitated persons not to

be paid

906

Lehew, James,

pension increased .

1326

Lehman, Herman,

payment to

1452

Leighton, George C. ,

pension increased .

1279

Leighton, Jason,

pension increased ..

1306

Leipsic, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ....

83, 815 86, 818

Leland, Sidney,

pension increased ...

1301

Lemhi Agency, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of

256, 992

Lemon Bay, Fla. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Lemon, Robert,

pension increased ....

1464

Lentz, John J. ,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses ..

581

Les Galops Island, N. Y.,

consent for dam, to Adams Island by

Canada

392

Lessig, William H. ,

pension increased .

1518

Lester, Abner H. ,

pension ..

1553

Lester, Bessie H. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1311

Letter Balances, etc. , Postal Service, appropriation for

113, 1171

Letter Boxes, Postal Service,

punishment for injury to rural, extended

to all mail routes

1175

Letter Carriers, appropriation for for rural free delivery..
Letts, Dewitt Clinton,
pension .. Levenseler, Laura (daughter),
pension ...

111, 1170 112, 1171
1399
1614

2134

INDEX .

Lever, Hon. A. F., deficiency appropriation for contested-election expenses ..
Lewis, Alonzo, pension increased ..
Lewis, Anson, pension increased ................
Lewis Bluff, Ala., bridge authorized across Tennessee River, to Guntersville from ....

Page. 581 1367 1725
921

Lewis, Elizabeth,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of

215

Lewis, Isaac W., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 213

Lewis, James W.,

pension increased .

1399

Lewis, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

209

Lewis, John S. (father) , pension ..

1294

Lewis, Oliver and Phillips,

claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

Lewis, Plummer,

pension increased .

1723

Lewis River, Wash., appropriation for improvement of........ 370

Libby, Harry F.,

pension increased

1640

Liberia, appropriation for minister resident and

consul-general to for secretary of legation ..

76, 808 77,808

Liberto, Salvatore,

deficiency appropriation for indemnity to,

wounded at Erwin, Miss .....

1032

Librarian of Congress, appropriation for . report for 1901 , ordered printed

128, 862 1764

Libraries, D. C.,

exempt from personal tax..

620

Library Committee, House of Representatives,

chairman, made member of Lincoln Memo-

rial Commission .

486

Library Committee, Senate, chairman, made member of Lincoln Memo-

rial Commission .

486

Library, D. C., Free Public,

appropriation for salaries ..

594, 960

for expenses ...

594, 960

Library, Joint Committee of Congress upon the, increased to five members of the Senate

and of the House ...

735

Library of Congress,

appropriation for librarian, assistant, etc. 128, 862

for chiefs of divisions, assistants, etc .. 128 , 862

for reading rooms, etc ..

129, 863

for Congressional reference library ... 130, 864

for law library ..

130, 864

for copyright office .

130, 864

for additional assistants, current year . 130, 864

for distributing card indexes, etc

864

for Sunday opening ...

130.864

for purchasing books, periodicals, etc. 130 , 864

for contingent expenses .

131 , 865

transfer of books from departments,

etc

865

transfers to Free Public Library

865

for superintendent of building, clerks,

etc

131 , 865

for engineers, etc

131 , 865

for Sunday opening .

131 , 865

for fuel, lights, etc ..

131 , 865

Library of Congress -Continued.

Page.

appropriation for furniture, shelves, etc. 131 , 865

for trees, etc ....

1123

for printing and binding

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for printing and

binding.

94, 1069

for fuel, lights, etc ..

1069

books, etc. , Industrial Commission, trans-

ferred to .

736

extra copies of Geological Survey reports

for

741

receipts from sales of card indexes, etc. ,

to be credited to allotment for print-

ing

480

License Taxes, D. C. (see Taxation, D. C) .

Liege, Belgium, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Lieberg, Eberhard P.,

pension increased .......

1553

Liens, D. C.,

of creditors on real and personal estates of

decedents domiciled elsewhere

528

on equitable interests

540

on equitable interest in chattels..

541

Life-Saving Service,

appropriation for General Superintendent,

assistant, clerks, etc ..

139, 873

for superintendents ...

433, 1095

for keepers ..

434, 1095

for crews, etc.

434, 1095

for new stations .

434, 1096

for exhibit Saint Louis Exposition

445

for cable, Plum Island, Wis. , to main-

land .

1096

deficiency appropriation for ... 29, 585, 588, 1076

for site, Long Branch station

9

for salaries of superintendents

1037

Bogue Inlet, N. C., station authorized .

58

station established , Ocracoke Island , N. C. 101

Monomoy Island, Mass. , additional sta-

tion ....

285

mouth of Black River, Lorain, Ohio.... 982

superintendents ' salaries increased ; clerk. 484

Life- Saving Testimonials, appropriation for

79,810

Light-House Board,

appropriation for expenses, civilian mem-

bers, etc...

432, 1093

for chief clerk, clerks, etc ...

139, 873

to prescribe lights, etc., on bridge across

Alabama River, Ala .

772

Allegheny River, Pittsburg, Pa .

837

Arkansas River in Arkansas .

Fort Gibson , Ind . T..

Moors Rock, Ark .

926

Ashley River, S. C ....

494

Calumet River, Hammond, Ind . , and

Cummings, Ill ...

660

Chattahoochee River, Columbus, Ga... 192

Choctawhatchee River, Martin Ferry,

Ala ...

1225

Clinch River, Dossett, Tenn ...

794

Columbia River, Vancouver, Wash

279

Conecuh River, McGowans Ferry, Ala . 852

Connecticut River, Hartford, Conn .

836

Cumberland River, Nashville, Tenn ..

391

Current River, Ark .

East Saint Andrews Bay, Fla .

73

Emory River, Harriman, Tenn

499

Manatee River, Fla ....

191

Mississippi River, between Champlin and

Anoka, Minn .

407

Missouri River, Chamberlain , S. Dak.. 834

Council Bluffs, Iowa, to Omaha, Nebr. 206

Kansas and Missouri ...

751

INDEX .

2135

Light-House Board-Continued.

Page.

to prescribe lights, etc. , on bridge across

Missouri River, Kansas City , Mo ..

57,920

Oacoma, S. Dak

762

Parkville, Mo

103

Pierre, S. Dak .

658

Plattsmouth, Nebr ..

496

Saint Joseph, Mo ..

36

South Omaha, Nebr.

91

Monongahela River, Pa

59, 840

Morgantown, W. Va .

71

Webster, Pa ..

851

between West Elizabeth and Dravos-

burg .

499

Neuse River, Kinston , N. C.

180

Ohio River, Allegheny, Pa

179

Ouachita River, Ark

89

Pearl River, Miss ..

187

Smiths Ferry, Miss ..

925

Rainy River, Minn ...

802

Red River, Shreveport, La

182

Saint Francis River, Ark..

835

Savannah River, South Carolina and

Georgia ...

281

Sand Bar Ferry, Ga .

760

Savannah, Ga .

105

Tennessee River, Tenn

493

Lewis Bluff to Guntersville, Ala

922

Marion County, Tenn ...

202

Waccamaw River, S. C .....

387

White River, Ark ..

40,186

Newport, Ark ...

396

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor...

826

Light-House Establishment, appropriation for supplies . for repairs for keepers' salaries .. for light-vessels, etc. for buoyage

432 , 1093 432, 1093 432, 1094 432, 1094 432, 1094

for fog signals, etc .. for lighting of rivers for survey of sites..

432, 1094 433, 1094 433, 1094

for oil houses ; cost

433, 1094

for Porto Rico ...

433 , 1094

for light-houses, etc. , Alaskan waters . 433, 1095

for lights in channels of Great Lakes. 433, 1095

deficiency appropriation for removing

wreck, Saint Clair River, Mich

10

for credit, Frederick M. Symonds's ac-

counts

10

for decree, Port Austin Reef station .. for keepers' salaries .. for buoyage

559 1072 1072

for light-vessels

1072

contract for Patapsco light-station author-

ized ....

559

specific estimates to be annually submitted . 433

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor

826

Light-Houses,

appropriation for supplies ......

432, 1093

for repairs, incidental expenses, etc .. 432 , 1093

for survey, etc. , of sites .

433, 1094

Light-Houses, Beacons, and Fog-Signals, appropriation for Ram Island Ledge, Portland, Me . for depot, Second district for Boston Harbor, Broad Sound Channel change of location . Lovells Island, ranges..
Spectacle Island, ranges .. for Orient Point , N. Y for Staten Island , N. Y. , depot for ranges, Delaware River, Port Penn ,
Reedy Island, and Finns Point ....

430 430 430 1092 430 430 430 430
430

Light-Houses, Beacons, and Fog-Signals-- Page. Continued .

appropriation for Schooner Ledge, Pa. ,

right of way.

430

for tender, Fifth district ..

430

for Sapelo, Ga....

430

for tender, Seventh district .

430

for Hillsboro Inlet, Fla

430, 1092

for Oyster Bayou , La

431

for Kewaunee, Wis ..

431

for Saint Martin , Mich .

431

for tender for inspector, Ninth district.. 431

for tender for engineer, Ninth district .. 431

for Calumet, Ill ..

431

for Peshtigo Reef, Wis. , light-vessel .

431

for Toledo Harbor, Ohio, entrance .

431

for Crisps Point, Mich

431

for Ecorse, Mich. , Grassy Island ranges. 431

for Point au Pelee Passage, Lake Erie . 431 , 1095

for Conneaut, Ohio

431

for Ashtabula, Ohio

431

for Fort Winfield Scott, Cal.

431

for Oakland, Cal. , harbor entrance .

431

for Mile Rocks, Cal. , San Francisco Bay . 431

for Browns Point, Wash

431

for Battery Point, Wash. , fog signal .

431

for Bluff Shoal, Pamlico Sound, N. C .. 70

for Semiahmoo , Wash

329

for Mukilteo Point, Wash .

765

forBurrows Island, Rosario Strait , Wash. 853

for keeper's dwelling, Grosse Isle, De-

troit River, Mich .

853

for Ram Island Ledge, Portland, Me ... 1091

for relief vessel, Third district ..

1092

for Norwalk, Conn . , Pecks Ledge ..

1092

for Staten Island depot, lamp shop

1092

for Five Fathom Bank, N. J. , vessel.. 1092

for Cape Lookout Shoals, N. J., vessel . for tender for engineer, Seventh district . for Heald Bank, Tex. , vessel for Racine Reef, Wis ..

1092 1092 1092 1093

for relief vessel, Ninth and Eleventh dis-

tricts

1093

for Spectacle Reef, Lake Huron, Mich .. 1093

for Middle Island , Lake Huron , Mich .. 1093

for tender, Saint Marys River, Mich ... 1093

for depot, Eleventh district ..

1093

for Yerba Buena Island , Cal. , oil house . 1093

for Southampton Shoal, San Francisco

Bay, Cal ...

1093

for Piedras Blancas, Cal. , keeper's dwell-

ing, etc

1093

for Blunts Reef, Cape Mendocino, Cal. ,

vessel...

1093

for Light-House Establishment ..... 432 , 1093

deficiency appropriation for Hog Island

Shoal, R. I...

for sites, Saint Marys River, Mich

1041

authorized, Oyster Bayou, La

75

completion authorized, Patapsco River,

Md.; cost increased..

329, 559

depot, Second district, to be established on

Government land, Boston Harbor,

Mass

853

repeal of appropriation for depot, Castle

Island, Mass

853

established, Boston Harbor, Mass. , Broad

Sound Channel .

93

Mukilteo Point, Wash

765

Southampton Shoal, San Francisco Bay,

Cal .

822

keeper's dwelling authorized at Calumet

Harbor, Ill..

107

Ecorse range lights, Detroit River

191

Kewaunee light-house, Wis

74

right of way, etc. , granted at Choctaw

Point, Ala

119

2136

INDEX .

Light- Vessels ( see also Light- Houses, etc. ) , Page.

appropriation for expenses.

432, 1094

deficiency appropriation for

1072

Lightfoot, Sarah D. (widow),

pension

1706

Lighting, D. C. ,

appropriation for expenses ; maximum

price, etc ....

... 601,966

for high candlepower lamps .

602, 966

minimum candlepower of gas re-

duced

602, 967

Liston, George A. ( son) ,

Page.

pension .

1707

Literary Bequests,

refund of tax on..

406

Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont. ,

proclamation establishing .

2022

Little, Doty,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Little, Eliza (widow),

pension increased...

1679

for electric lighting by underground

wires

602, 967

overhead wires permitted outside fire

limits ..

602

Lighting of Rivers, appropriation for

433, 1094

Little Falls, Minn.,

may bridge Mississippi River..........

505

Little Falls, N. Y. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1087

Likes, Edmond, pension increased ..
Lillman, Fredericke W. (widow), pension increased..
Lima, Ohio,
examination of public building, directed ; report
Limbs, pensions for loss of, increased ..

1553 1661
326 944

Little Harbor, N. H.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge ..

331

Little Kanawha River, W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 351 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Litton, Mahale (mother),

pension increased ....

1265

Little, Otis,

Limitation of Actions, D. C.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

right to bring action after removal of dis-

ministrator of .

227

ability .

542 Little Pedee River, S. C.,

against decedents' estates

542 appropriation for improvement of........ 352

on foreign judgments . ratification of debt by infant

542 Little Pigeon River, Tenn., 542 appropriation for improvement of.................... 358

Limitations, Statute of,

Little Red River, Ark.,

to apply in actions for lands patented in

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376

severalty to Indians

284 Little Sodus Bay, N. Y.,

not applicable for one year . Limoges, France,

284 appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334 Little Tennessee River,

appropriation for consul at Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

84 , 817

bridge across, Niles Ferry, Tenn. , made a

lawful structure

94

proclamation establishing .

2018 "Little Will," Schooner,

Lincoln, Late President Abraham, printing ordered of memorial addresses on,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

221

Garfield, and McKinley..

1771 Little, William McCarty,

Lincoln, Matthew W. , pension increased ..

may be appointed captain, Navy retired

1701

list

850

Lincoln Memorial,

commission created to secure plans for ... 486

Lincoln, Nebr.,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 312

appropriation for ..

425, 1087

Littlefield, Charles W. ,

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts .

1054

Littlefield, Eliza E. (widow),

pension increased..

1660

appropriation for rent of temporary build-

ings

1087

construction of public building authorized

adjacent to post-office.

1209

sale of present building for municipal

purposes ..

1209

use of proceeds; reversion .

1209

Linton, Harvey B.,

pension increased ..

1533

Lippitt, Moses,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

223, 225

Live Stock, Contagious Diseases of,

powers to suppress, transferred to Secre-

tary of Agriculture ..........

791

Live Stock, Indian Territory, punishment for stealing, killing, etc. , of.. 792

Liverpool, England,

appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

81,813 86,818

Livery Stables, D. C., license tax on proprietors ; additional .... 624

Living Targets, D. C.,

operation of, forbidden.....

623

Lipps, Mary A. (widow) , pension .

Livingston Creek, N. C., 1481 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Liquid Fuel, appropriation for tests, for naval purposes .
Liquor Dealers, D. C., refund of erroneous license taxes, 1893 ...
Liquor Dealers, D. C. , Wholesale, license tax on
Liquor Licenses, D. C. ,
receipts to be paid into the Treasury to credit of District ...

Loans and Currency Division, Treasury De-

684

partment,

deficiency appropriation for counters ..... 6

284 Lobster Hatchery, Maine,

appropriation for completing .

1106

627 Lock No. 3, Upper White River, Ark. ,

right of way through lands

41

Lockhart, Joseph D. ,

592 pension increased..

1685

Lister, Elizabeth (widow), pension increased ....

| Lockport, N. Y. , 1715 appropriation for public building ..... 421 , 1087

INDEX .

2137

Locks and Dams,

Page.

construction of, authorized, Bayou Ver-

milion, La ..

766

Mermentau River, La..

766

Locks Nos. 2 and 3, Big Sandy River, W. Va. ,

right of way granted through....

1030

Lockwood, Chauncey,

claim for extra mail service referred to

Court of Claims

243

Lockwoods Folly River, N. C., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Logan, Bridget (mother),

pension ..

1717

Logansport, Ind.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1087

London, England, appropriation for consul-general at ....... for clerk hire ....

81, 813 86, 818

London, Ky.,

terms of court

58

London, Ontario,

appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Long Branch, N. J.,

deficiency appropriation for life-saving sta-

tion ; site...

Long, Francis,

to be enlisted as sergeant, Signal Corps,

and retired ...

1455

Long, George T.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

209

Long, James W.,

may be appointed captain of infantry and

retired .

398

.

Long, Mial T.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

213

Long Tom River, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of........ 369

Longman, Elias,

pension increased .

1281

Loomis- Manning Filter Company,

deficiency appropriation for payment to.. 20

Loomis, William F.,

pension increased .

1598

Lorain, Ohio ( Black River) , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342, 463

Los Angeles, Cal., appropriation for rent temporary offices .. 421 , 1087

construction of new public building author-

ized

324

appropriation for

429, 1087

limit of cost increased , public building .

324

unexpended balance for public building

covered into the Treasury ...

324

Loss by Exchange,

appropriation for, missions ... for consulates

78, 809 88, 820

deficiency appropriation for, diplomatic

service..

32, 1074

Lotteries, etc., D. C. ,

penalties extended for promoting , etc .... 535

Loucks, Nellie (widow),

pension increased .

1378

Loudon Park National Cemetery, Md.,

appropriation for additional land

193

Loughlin, Timothy,

pension increased ..

1664

"Louis Walsh," Ship,

deficiency appropriation for compensating

owners of

1053

20

Louisiana,

Page.

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 898

authorized to dam Bayou Lafourche .

378

Louisiana, Mo.,

construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site

316

appropriation for ..

426, 1087

limit of cost increased, public building, to

include site

1212

Louisiana Purchase,
papers relating to, ordered printed ....... 1768 Louisiana Purchase Exposition,

appropriation for expenses, Government

exhibit

445

for illustrative exhibit of Indian condi-

tions ..

445

for life-saving exhibit .

445, 1095

for Government building.

446

for agricultural exhibit ..

1108

space to be furnished by Exposition

Company ...

1108

for exhibit of Alaskan products and re-

sources .

1108

for Indian Territory exhibit; proviso ... deficiency appropriation for expenses joint
Congressional committee, dedication of ..
exhibits of products by Arizona approved gold dollars authorized.
payment as part of appropriation delivery; bond invitation to Congress to attend dedication
services accepted ...
joint committee to be appointed national commission extended to July 1,
1905 . national-bank branch ; existence ex-
tended ..
opening and closing days changed to 1904.
proclamation announcing opening and closing dates .

1108
1068 70
446 446 446
1774 1774
446
447 446
1986

foreign nations invited to take part .... postponement of opening and closing
days ...
secretary's salary Louisiana State University and Agricultural
and Mechanical College,
military barracks reservation , Baton Rouge, transferred to

1986 2011
447
172

Louisville, Ky.,

terms of court

58

Loureno Marquez, Africa, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Love, Lucien B.,

pension increased .

1742

Lovejoy, Arthur P.,

pension increased .

1508

Lovells Island, Mass.,

range lights established on

93

Lovett, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Lowden, Elizabeth (widow) ,

pension .

1601

Lowe, Sarah H. H. ( widow),

pension

1337

Lowe, William,

pension increased .

1625

Lower Brul Agency, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at

246, 982

Lower Brul Indians,

payment for losses, forcible removal from

their homes .

265

2138

INDEX.

Lower Machodoc Creek, Va.,
appropriation for improvement of...................... Lower Chipola River, Fla.,
appropriation for improvement of. Lowery, Oscar W.,
pension increased ..

Page. 351
353
1397

Lowry, Mary Louise (daughter),

pension ...

1421

Loyd, William H. ,

pension increased ..

1594

Lubec Channel, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of...................... 348

Lucas, Daniel R.,

pension increased ..

1741

Luce, Benjamin F. H.,

pension increased ..

1348

Lucerne, Switzerland, appropriation for consul at .. for clerk hire...

83, 815 86, 818

Ludington, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ....

343, 1126

Ludlow, Genevieve Almira Sprigg (widow) ,

pension increased .

1381

Ludlum, Joseph H.,

pension increased..

1727

Ludwig, John, pension increased ..

... 1507

Luke, Anna E. (widow),

pension increased..

1380

Luman, Anne M. ( widow) ,

pension increased ..

1501

Lunacy Writs, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses

609, 975

deficiency appropriation for expenses ... 12,

562, 1043

proceedings restored to former practice ... act changing proceedings repealed Lunatics, D. C., authority over, transferred to equity court. no inheritance by illegitimate children
from non compos mother. admission of evidence of persons who
afterwards become..

1043 1043
524 537 540

Lund, Sidney N.,

pension increased .

1527

Lundy, James T., pension ...
Lungren, Norris L., pension .
Luquillo Forest Reserve, Porto Rico, proclamation establishing .
Luse, Frances E. (widow), pension ..
Luttrell, Walter McM. ,

1648 1293 2029 1724

deficiency appropriation for expenses, In-

dian school ...

575

Luxemburg, Netherlands and,

appropriation for minister to

807

for secretary of legation

808

Lyddane, Stephen M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executrix of ..

210

Lyman, Rachel (widow ) ,

pension increased ..

1400

Lyman, Theodore,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230

Lynch, Henderson,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

214

Lynch, Susan B. (widow),

pension increased

1501

Lynchburg, Va. , terms of court .

552, 794

Lynde, Williamanna E. (widow), pension increased .

Page. 1299

Lynn, Frank W.,

pension ...

1295

Lynn, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 332 limit of cost increased, public building... 312

appropriation for ....

425

Lyons, France,

appropriation for consul at

82,814

for clerk hire ..

86,818

M.

McAdams, Francis M. , pension increased .

McArdle, Dorcas (widow), pension ..
McArthur, John, pension increased .

McArthur, Nancy J. (widow), pension increased .

McBride, Pleasant H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . McCalla, Henry L. ,

granted honorable discharge McCampbell, Sarah,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

McCandless, Robert and George,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .

McCarter, William H., pension increased .

McCarthy, Julia (widow), pension ..

McCaul, Charles,
deficiency appropriation for paying estate of

McClain, P. A., payment to

McClellan, William C. , payment to heirs of.

McClellen, James R., pension increased.

McClintock, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of

McClosson, Graham, pension increased .

McClure, George W., pension increased.

McClure, Henry O. , pension increased

McClure, James P. , pension increased .

McClure, Jemima ( widow),

pension ..

McClure, Joseph D. ,

pension increased .

...

McClure and Willbanks,

payment to

McColley, Eva H. (widow) , pension increased ..
McCollum, Inez (widow), pension
McComb, George W. , pension increased .
McCombs, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

McConnaughey, Thomas H. , pension increased ..

McConnell, Alexander F., pension increased ..

1465 1541 1586 1502 214 1652
214
227 1476 1588
1053 1503 1393 1314
231 1630 1252 1677 1431 1466 1676 1759 1274 1684 1659
212 1257 1375

INDEX.

2139

McCord, Laps D. , deficiency appropriation for services .....
McCord, Sarah (widow) , pension ..
McCormick, Bernard, pension increased .
McCoy, Dewit C. , pension increased
McCoy, Francis M., pension increased .
McCoy, Jonas M. , pension increased .
McCranie, Margaret J. (widow), pension ..
McCuen, Margaret (widow), pension increased .
McCullouch, Adam, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of
McCullough, Robert M., pension increased ..

Page. 1068 1241 1406 1334 1585 1264 1677 1440
228 1316

McCurdy, Samuel,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

208

McCurley, Anna B. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1311

McDaniel, George,

pension increased ..

1318

McDermott, Patrick,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

211

McDonald, Barbara (widow),

pension increased .

1336

McDonald, Elizabeth ( daughter),

pension .

1406

McDonald, James E.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts for funds burned....

1047

McDonald, John, pension increased .
McDonald, Mary E. , payment to..
McDonald, Mary E. , and Stephen C. Brown, payment to ...
McDowell, Alexander,
deficiency appropriation for services, etc. , contested-elections expenses ..........

1332 1239 1239
582

McDowell, George, pension increased .
McElheney, Annie (widow), pension increased ..
McFadden, Henry J., pension increased .
McFarland, Ada L. (widow) , pension
McGahan, Laban,
pension McGowans Ferry, Ala. ,
bridgeauthorized across Conecuh River at . McGrath, John,
pension increased .
McGrath, John, pension increased .

1390 1309 1564 1410 1745 852 1240 1301

McGuinn, Catherine ( widow) , pension
McGuire, Nancy (widow), pension
McHarg, Fannie (widow) , pension increased ..
McHenry, William H., pension increased ..
McIlhenny, E. A. , deficiency appropriation forcaring for shipwrecked sailors, Arctic Ocean

1757 1730 1579 1696
565

McIntire, Archibald, pension increased .

Page. 1667

McIntosh, Jesse A. ,

pension increased ..

1592

MeJunkin, Lue Emma (mother) ,

pension

1291

McKean, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of.....

218

McKeehan, James A. ,

pension increased .

1379

McKeesport, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1087

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205

McKenny, Cynthia A. (widow) , pension increased ..

1299

McKinley, Ida S. (widow of the late President) ,

franking privilege granted to .

1237

pension

1338

resolutions of sympathy of the two Houses of Congress to be transmitted to ... 1763

McKinley, Jennie A. (widow) ,

pension .

1253

McKinley, late President William,

appropriation for portrait, for Executive

Mansion

462

for bronze bust, for Senate wing of Cap-

itol .

1144

deficiency appropriation for funeral ex-

penses, House of Representatives . 26, 581

Senate

26

for balance of year's salary to widow... 579

for medical, etc. , expenses

579

eulogy by Hon. John Hay ordered

printed

1774

franking privilege granted to widow of... joint meeting of Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives for memorial address
by Hon. John Hay  memorial addresses on Lincoln, Garfield,
and, ordered printed ..... proclamation appointing day of burial a
day of national mourning pension to widow of ... thanks of Congress presented to Hon.
John Hay for memorial address on . McKinney, Alfred,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . McKinney, Elizabeth,
patent in fee to, for lands in Oklahoma... McKinstry, C. H.,
deficiency appropriation for credit in accounts

1237
1763 1771 1987 1338 1771
214 261
556

McKnight, David M.,

pension increased ..

1455

McKnight, James H.,

pension increased ..

1536

McLaughlin, Emma (widow), pension increased .......
McLean, John, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of
McLellan, Arthur, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1303 230 224

McLelland, Leander C., payment to estate of .
McLorinen, Catherine P. (widow) , pension increased .
McMahon, James A. , deficiency appropriation for .
McMillan, Hon. James, late a Senator,
deficiency appropriation for widow

1608 1310
15 1067

2140

INDEX .

McMillen, Millen, pension increased .

Page. 1510

McMorrow, James,

pension increased .

1671

McMurry, George N. ,

pension increased .

1639

McMurtrie, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

222

McNair, Ciara W. ( widow),

pension increased .

1489

McNair, James E.,

pension increased .

1458

McNeils Island, Wash. ,

appropriation for building, etc. , penitentiary
deficiency appropriation for steam launch, penitentiary.
McNett, Abby Clark (widow) , pension .

1144 579 1297

McPhee, Angus A. , payment to
McPherson, Isaac, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1493 230

McPherson, John A. T. ,

pension increased ..

1739

McQuiddy, Amanda E. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1710

McRae, Robert P., pension increased .
McVicker, James H. , pension increased ..

1676 1557

Macfarlane, John,

pension increased ..

1635

Macfarlane, Louisa M. (widow),

pension increased .

1449

Machine Guns, Army,

appropriation for, including carriages . 308, 1026

Mack, Theron R. ,

pension increased ..

1369

Mackay, John and Mungo,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230

Mackey, William H.,

pension increased..

1319

Maclay, Edgar Stanton, purchase of history of Spanish-American war, for use of Navy forbidden ..... 686

Maclin, Benjamin P. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of

214

Maclin, Sarah R., payment of Court of Claims judgment to. 214

Macloon, Henry P. ,

pension increased ..

1495

Macomb, Maj. Gen. Alexander, condemned cannon donated for statue to . 750

Macon City, Mo. , Catholic Church,

payment to, for use and occupation ....

234

Macon, Ga.,

appropriation for public building

1087

limit of cost increased, public building

323

for improving public building ...

1210

payment to

487

Madden, William ,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices ..

583, 1069

Maddox, Martha (widow), pension ..
Madison Forest Reserve, Mont., proclamation establishing .

1754 2024

Madison, James,

calendars of correspondence, ordered

printed

1768

Magazine Arms, etc.,

Page.

issue to militia in return for old-style rifles,

etc

777

Magdeburg, Germany, appropriation for consul at .

83,815

Magnolia Fire and Marine Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ...

1079, 1079

Magruder Station, Md., authority to construct railroad from terminal line in District of Columbia to . 917
Mahan, F. A.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

556

Mahan, James B. ( son ) ,

pension .

1484

Mahan, Patrick,

pension increased .

1708

Maher, Julia (widow) ,

pension

1256

Mahon, Patrick,

land bought by George W. King released from alien forfeiture on account of. 1360

Mahoney, Daniel J. ,

pension increased .

1415

Mail Bag and Lock Repair Shop, appropriation for expenses
Mail Bags, etc., appropriation for

115, 1172 115, 1172

Mail Depredations, Postal Service, appropriation for chief inspector, for inspectors, etc for expenses .. for rewards, etc ..
Mail Locks, etc., appropriation for
Mail Messenger Service, appropriation for ... deficiency appropriation for
Mail Protection,

etc ... 165,901 117, 1174 117, 1175 117, 1175
115, 1172
114, 1172 1061

appropriation for lookouts in certain post-

offices for

1090

Mail Transportation, appropriation for star routes .. Alaska service ... for steamboat routes
for messenger service

114, 1172 114, 1172 114, 1172 114, 1172

for pneumatic-tube service ; contracts 114, 1172

for wagon, etc. , service ..

115, 1172

for railroad routes ...

115, 1172

for railway post-office car service ... 115 , 1172

for electric and cable car service ; rate 116, 1173

for special facilities

116, 1173

for miscellaneous

116, 1173

for foreign mails .

116, 1173

deficiency appropriation for star routes .

24,

33,576, 588, 590, 1075, 1077

for railroad routes ....

33, 1061

for messenger service

33

for steamboat routes

576, 1075

Maine,

appropriation for revenue cutter for coast of 1097

deficiency appropriation for raising volun-

teers ...

.... 30, 1078

adjustment of claim for raising volunteers . 586

conveyance of Widows Island to, author-

ized

952

Maine Judicial District,

circuit court terms changed .....

199

Mainland of United States, defined in Chinese exclusion act ......... 176

Mainz, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

82, 814 86, 818

INDEX .

2141

Makah Indians, Wash. ,

Page.

appropriation for support, etc., of ...... 256 , 992

Malaga, Spain, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

84, 817 86, 818

Malden River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 348

Maley, Sarah (widow), pension increased .
Malin, William G.,
appropriation for reimbursing . deficiency appropriation for reimburse-
ment

1312 1001 575

Mall, Washington, D. C. , removal of railroad tracks, etc. , from.....
Mallicoat, Daniel L., pension ..

915 1494

Malloy, William M. , appropriation for reporting . deficiency appropriation for
Malta, Great Britain, appropriation for consul at

479 1067 83, 815

Maltby Building (see also Senate) , appropriation for repairs

124, 857

Mamaroneck, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Mammoth Spring, Ark.,

appropriation for establishing fish hatch-

ery at ..

1107

Managua, Nicaragua, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Manatee River, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of................... 354

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

bridge authorized across ..

190

Manchester, England, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

82, 814 86, 818

Manchester, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 332

Mandamus, D. C. ,

discretion of court as to extending time for

defendant .

543

Manes, Mary (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1578

Manila Bay, Battle of,

deficiency appropriation for paying prize

money

1072

Manila, P. I.,

appropriation for military post ; purchase

of land...

465, 1129

deficiency appropriation for military post . 12

for gunboats, etc. , delivered to Navy .

15

bond issue authorized for sewers and water

supply ..

708

taxes to be levied to meet interest, etc.,

of bonds

708

establishment of mint, authorized

710

Manistee, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

Manistique, Mich.,

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor ..

379

Manitowoc, Wis. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345 survey for harbor of refuge, authorized ... 345

Manley, R. L.,

deficiency appropriation for rent ......

577

Mann, Jacob, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Manner, John J.,

pension ..

1404

Mannheim, Germany, appropriation for consul at
for clerk hire ...........

83, 815 86, 818

Manning, Thomas,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

219, 223, 231

Mannix, Ella B. S. ( widow),

pension increased .

1486

Mantach, James,

pension increased .

1291

Mantua Creek, N. J. ,

appropriation for improvement of....

350

Manual of Surveying Instructions, 1902,

made a part of surveying contracts .

120

Manufactures,

factory system statistics, to be collected

every ten years from 1905.

52

Manufactures, Bureau of, Department of Commerce and Labor,

established ; official force ..

827

duties of; assistance of consular officers

827

deficiency appropriation for chief, etc

1081

Manufacturing Industries,

duty of Department of Commerce and

Labor as to....

826

Mapels, James N.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

Maples, David C. ,

pension increased .

1323

Maps,

appropriation for publication , War De-

partment ...

466, 1131

for transporting War Department, etc. ,

to foreign countries .

467, 1131

Maps ofthe United States, appropriation for . for publishing post-route
deficiency appropriation for . for engraving, etc. , geological .
former appropriations made available. sale of post-route, authorized ; price .......... Maracaibo, Venezuela, appropriation for consul-general at ..
for clerk hire ...

158, 893 167, 902
31 22 569 167,902
81 , 813 86, 818

Marble, John,

pension increased ..

1494

Marblehead, Mass. , appropriation for survey of breakwater ... 332

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

428, 1087

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1205

Marden, Maria A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1693

Mare Island, Cal.,

appropriation for public works, navy-

yard..

674, 1187

dredging .

1187

for public works, naval magazine

678

for naval hospital ..

679

"Margaretta," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

218

Maricle, Robert H. ,

pension increased .

1630

"Marietta," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation , referred to

Court of Claims

244

Marine Biological Station, N. C. , appropriation for salaries .

443, 1105

deficiency appropriation for

10

Marine Corps,

appropriation for pay of officers, active

list

686, 1199

present commandant to have rank of

major-general retired list

686 687, 1199

2142

INDEX.

Marine Corps-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for pay of enlisted men .. 687, 1199

additional..

687

retired list

687, 1199

additional number of enlisted men

authorized

687

for undrawn clothing for mileage to officers . for commutation of quarters for pay of civil force

687, 1199 687, 1199 687, 1199 687, 1199

for provisions...

688, 1200

shore duty ration to be same as

Army..

688, 1200

exception, island possessions, etc .. 688 , 1200

for clothing, fuel, etc

688, 1200

for military stores for transportation and recruiting . for repairs, etc. , barracks ....

688, 1200 688, 1200
688, 1200

for rent, supply building, phia .
for forage for hire of quarters ..

Philadel688, 1201 688, 1201 688, 1201

for contingent .

689 , 1201

for public works, barracks and quar-

ters ..

689, 1201

deficiency appropriation for hire of quar-

ters ...

17, 1050

for repairs, etc. , barracks

18, 1050, 1052

for contingent . 18, 30, 566 , 568 , 1050, 1053 , 1073

for barracks, New York..

18

for transportation .. for pay

18, 566, 568, 586, 1050 30, 586, 589, 1073

for detachment, North Atlantic fleet ... 94

for fuel

566, 1050, 1052

for ammunition ..

568

for advertising, allowance of voucher

569

for provisions

1050

for repairs, etc. , island of Guam

1052

for forage

1053

for military stores

1053

for miscellaneous supplies .

1053

for barracks, Washington, D. C ..

1053

for repairs, etc. , League Island, Pa. ,

barracks

1053

for Henry Ives Cobb ..

1053

for barracks, Annapolis

1053

additional officers and enlisted men au-

thorized

1198

filling vacancies by promotion .

1198

selections from Naval Academy, non-

commissioned officers, and civil life . 1198

present commissions not vacated

1198

selections for staff departments

1198

credit in quartermaster's accounts, directed 1053

credits directed in accounts for commuta-

tion of marines on shore in island

possessions .

569

Marine-Hospital Service ( see also Public Health

and Marine-Hospital Service) ,

appropriation for Surgeon-General, clerks,

ete

141

Marine Hospitals,

appropriation for Cleveland, Ohio, boiler

plant

423

for New York, purchase of site, etc ..

423

for Savannah, Ga

423

for Pittsburg, Pa

423

for Buffalo , N. Y

423

authorized at Savannah, Ga .

75

Buffalo, N. Y

90

Pittsburg, Pa..

93

contracts authorized, Savannah, Pittsburg,

and Buffalo

423

purchase of books, etc. , permitted .

423

transfer of land from arsenal, Pittsburg,

Pa. , as marine-hospital site .....

1088

Marinette, Wis.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized 1208 Marion, Ind.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer

Soldiers' Home..

471 , 1135

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

for Volunteer Soldiers' Home ..

14, 1049

purchase of public building site author-

ized

1208

Maritime Exchange, New York,

appropriation for tidal indicator ..

1099

Mark, H. C.,

payment to ...

490

Market Dealers, D. C.,

license tax on

628

Market Masters, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries, etc ............................ 593 , 958

Markle, William ,

pension increased .

1579

Marks, Henry,

appropriation for

268

Marnane, Michael,

pension increased

1394

Marquette, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ...

344, 1126

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor .

379

Marr, William C. ,

payment to

1276

Marriage, D. C.,

age of consent to render, void .

543

form of license modified .

543

Married Women,

limitation upon examination of wife of

bankrupt

798

Married Women, D. C.,

provisions for legal proceedings against,

repealed

542

Marseilles, France,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86,818

Marshall, Daniel P.,

pension increased

1595

Marshall, James M. ,

pension increased

1636

Marshall, Matilda A. (widow),

pension

1595

Marshall, R. E.,

payment to

490

Marshall, William P. ,

payment of bounty to..

1609

Marshalltown, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1087

Marshals, Consular Courts, appropriation for ....

87,819

Marshals, United States Courts,

appropriation for salaries, etc.; advances 475, 1141

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc .. 32,

579, 587, 1065, 1077

bond of, Alaska, may be increased .......

extra allowance to, conducting bankrupt's

business for a limited period ...

797

fees allowed in felony cases, etc. , Indian

Territory

395

to serve writs, etc. , Spanish Claims Com-

mission .

550

Martin Ferry, Ala. ,

bridge authorized across Choctawhatchee

River at

1225

INDEX .

2143

Martin, Hezekiah M.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Martin, James B.,
pension increased . Martin, John J. ,
pension increased .

Page . 212
1717
1408

Martin, Joseph R. ,

pension increased .

1251

Martin, M. D. L.,

payment to

490

Martin, Marcellus M. M. , alias Marion M.

Martin,

pension increased ..

1433

Martin, S. H.,

payment to

487

Martin, Thomas,

pension .

1626

Martinique, West Indies,

appropriation for consul at ......

84, 817

for relief of sufferers, volcanic eruption in . 198

Martinsville, Va.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1087

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205

"Mary," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

231

Maschmeyer, Charles,

pension

1644

Mason City, Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase of public building site authorized

1039 1208

Mason, John A. ,

credit in accounts of .....

1541

Mason, Jonathan,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ...

220

Mason, Jonathan, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Masonic Fair, D. C.,

extension of electric wires permitted for.. 738

Masonic Mutual Relief Association, D. C.,

charter modified..

923

Massachusetts Avenue Bridge, D. C. ,

appropriation for raising grade, etc

598

Massachusetts Avenue Plaza, D. C.,

authority for construction, new terminal

station ..

913

Massachusetts Judicial District,

circuit court terms changed

199

Massage Establishments, D. C.,

license tax on; police approval

626

Massey and James, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ....... 224

Mastick, E. L.,

payment to agent of

487

Matagorda Bay, Tex., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Matamoras, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Matawan Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of..

350

Mathews, Catharine T. R. ( widow) ,

pension ..

1743

Mathews, George W.,

pension increased.

1449

Mathews, Philip,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

212

Matney, William B. , pension increased.
Matson, Courtland C., pension increased .

Page. 1353
1411

Matteosian, Dr. H. B. ,

payment to

238

Matthews, Charles W. ,

claim of agents for, referred to Court of

Claims ; payment .....

764

Matthews, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .......

217

Matthews, James,

pension increased .

1356

Matthews, Lyman,

pension increased .

1654

Matthews, William,

pension increased .

1395

Mattingly, James,

pension increased ..

1643

Mattson, Cherston ( widow) ,

pension

1529

Maultsby, Bessie R.,

right of United States to lands in Mont-

gomery, Ala. , released to ...............

787

Maus, Marion,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

1047

Maxfield, Isadora F. (widow),

pension increased ...

1545

Maxted, Levi,

granted honorable discharge

1435

Maxwell, Charles P.,

pension increased.

1471

Maxwell, William H. ,

pension increased ..

1577

May, J. H.,

payment to

487

May, Stephen,

pension increased .

1359

May, Thomas P.,

pension increased .

1531

May, Wallace K.,

pension increased .

1552

Mayer, David,

payment to

1453

Mayhew, J. W. ,

payment to

488

Maynard, Absolum,

pension .

1495

Mayo, F. W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of...

216

Mayport, Fla.,

appropriation for quarantine station, site,

etc.

423

Maysville, Ky.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1087

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1204

Mazatlan, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Meade, Catherine (widow) ,

pension ...

1266

Meade, John W.,

pension

1315

Meadville, Pa.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site...

1039

purchase of public building site, author-

ized

1208

Mealey, James, pension increased ..
Means, H. F. , payment to

1574 490

2144

INDEX.

Meat Inspection,

Page.

appropriation for expenses of.. waiving of certificates..

289, 1150 289, 1151

Medallions,

issue authorized for Thomas Jefferson

Memorial Association ....

1227

Medals,

to be made for Washington Monument Association, Alexandria, Va ....... 715

Medals of Honor,

bestowed upon certain revenue-cutter offi-

cers for relief of Arctic whaling fleet . 492

appropriation for

492

Medbury, Matthew C.,

pension increased ..

1320

Mediation, International,

convention for submission of disputes to .. 1779

reservation by United States..

1801

Medical Department, Army,

appropriation for Hospital Corps ..... for pay of officers ; longevity

509, 930 510, 931

for hospital matrons

511 , 933

for superintendent nurse corps . for nurses..

511 , 933 511 , 933

for contract surgeons.

512, 933

for pay of volunteer officers

513

for supplies, etc

518,939

preventing spread of epidemic dis-

eases, etc..

518, 940

open market purchases .

518, 940

for museum; library

518, 940

deficiency appropriation for

29,

586, 589, 1073, 1076

for contract surgeons..

13

for artificial limbs

29, 586, 589

Medical Inspectors of Public Schools, D. C.,
appropriation for; appointment, duties ... 969 Medical Museum, Army,

appropriation for preserving, etc. , speci-

mens

518, 940

Medical Schools, D. C., distribution of dead bodies to ..
Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Wyo. proclamation establishing changing boundaries .
Mediums, etc., D. C., license tax on ; police approval
Medlin, Presley P., pension ..
Medomac River, Me. , preliminary examination of, to be made..
Meeker, Arivella D. , payment to, from Ute annuity fund ......

173 2003 2015
626 1424 379 1388

Melbourne, Australia,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...........

86, 818

Mellert Foundry and Machine Company,

payment to

1507

Melton, Minerva (widow),

pension increased .

1385

Members of the House of Representatives,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age

124, 858

for clerk hire

127,861

deficiency appropriation for compensation Memorial Address on late President McKinley,
joint meeting of the two Houses of Con-
gress for, by Hon. John Hay. Memorial Addresses of Lincoln, Garfield, and
McKinley, printing ordered .. Memphis-Chattanooga Railway, may bridge Tennessee River

1067 1763 1771 201

Memphis, Helena and Louisiana Railway Page. Company,

may bridge Arkansas River in Arkansas .. 35 Saint Francis River, Lee County, Ark.. 834

Memphis, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

limit of cost increased , public building .

314

appropriation for

425, 1087

Mennecke, William,

pension .

1734

Mennonite Church, Pennsylvania,

payment to trustee of .

489

Menominee, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 344 limit of cost increased, public building ... 315

appropriation for

425

Menominee River, Mich. and Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of.................. 344 Menominee River, Wis.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 384 Meramec River, Mo. ,

dams, etc., authorized for water supply,

Saint Louis County ..

55

3555

Mercer, George A. ,

pension increased ..

1521

Mercer, Henderson,

pension increased ....

1660

Mercer, Hugh,

appropriation for monument to General,

at Fredericksburg, Va .....

491

Merchant Seamen,

laws applied to trade with Philippines ;

officers substituted .......

711

Merchant Vessels,

duties, etc. , of Secretary of the Treasury

over, transferred to Secretary of Com-

merce and Labor ...

829

Merchant, Warren Y. ,

pension increased ..

1427

Merchants and Miners' Transportation Com-

pany, refund to, on account of steamers "Ben
de Ford" and " S. R. Spaulding " .. 241 Merchants' Coal Company,

deficiency appropriation for compensation .

7

Meriden, Conn.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

428, 1087

Mermentau River, La. ,

construction of locks, etc. , authorized in . 766

Merrell, Austin P.,

pension increased ..

1746

Merrell, Sarah C. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1694

Merriam, H. C.,

may be appointed major-general, Army,

and retired ...

796

Merrick, James,

pension increased ..

1402

Merrill, Allen W.,

pension increased ..

1510

Merrill, Charles F. ,

pension .

1338

Merrill, George L.,

payment to .

238

Merrill, Merzellah,

pension increased ..

1519

Merrimac River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 348

Merritt, Marcia M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1246

INDEX .

2145

Merritt, Sarah E. (widow) , pension increased ..
Merrow, Mary Ann (widow), pension ..
Merry, Jonathan, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

Page. 1702 1410
228

Mesa Verde, Colo.,

deficiency appropriation for survey of.... 1057

negotiations for securing

998

Mesne Profits, D. C.,

period of accounting for, extended, in

ejectments .

537

Mess, Joseph S.,

pension increased ..

1528

Messengers,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives

126, 860

for, Senate .

122, 856

Messengers to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives

125 , 860

for, Senate

121 , 855

Messick, James W.,

pension increased .

1583

Messina, Italy, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ....

85,817 86, 818

Meteorological Stations,

appropriation for maintenance, West In-

dies, Hawaii , etc ..........

288, 1149

Methodist Episcopal Church, Martinsburg, W.

Va . ,

payment to, for use and occupation ...

234

Metropolitan Railroad Company, D. C.,

switching on old Sixteenth street permit-

ted

731

Metz, Jacob,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

widow of

209

Metz, Joel,

pension increased ..

1274

Mexican Boundary Commission, appropriation for continuation ...

80, 811

Mexican Boundary Line,

appropriation for inspection and repair of

monuments

478

Mexican Silver Dollars,

receivable in Philippines for public dues . 954 Mexican War,

pensions to survivors increased
Mexico, appropriation for ambassador to
for secretary of embassy . for second secretary for third secretary .

1228
76, 807 77,808 77,808 77,809

for water boundary commission

80, 811

for inspection, etc. , of boundary monu-

ments

487

deficiency appropriation for repayment, La Abra and Weil claims ..
citizens of, exempt from immigration tax . protocol of agreement submitting " Pious
Fund " claim to arbitration
rules for entry of aliens from, to be prescribed

5 1213
1916
1221

Mexico City, Mexico,

appropriation for consul-general at .............. 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

Meyer, Jane M. (widow) , pension increased .

1516

Meyers and Richardson,

payment to

487

VOL XXXII, PT 2--58

Miami, Fla.,

Page.

appropriation for quarantine station, site . 423

Michie, Maria Louisa (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1325

Michigan,

deficiency appropriation for refunding ex-

penses, raising volunteers ...

586

Michigan City, Ind., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 343

Michigan Lake Superior Power Company,

may divert water from Saint Marys River;

conditions

361

Middle Island, Lake Huron, Mich. , appropriation for light-house, etc.
Midshipmen, title of naval cadets changed to ..
number of appointments increased . distribution . filling present vacancies..
annual notification of vacancies ..

1093
686 1197 1197 1197 1197

appointment if Congressional nomination not made
punishment for hazing . increase to continue ten years appointment from Porto Rico age of admission changed to between 16
and 20 ...

1197 1198 1198 1198
1198

Milam, A. J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to executor of.....
Milam, John S., pension increased ..

214 1666

Milan, Italy, appropriation for consul at .

83, 815

Milburn, Harriet T. (widow),

pension .

1454

Milburn, Samuel P. ,

pension increased .

1421

Mile Rocks, Cal.,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion

431

Mileage,

appropriation for Representatives and

Delegates

124, 858

for Senators ..

121, 854

Milford, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Milford Haven, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of

336

Milikien, Albert J., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Military Academy,

appropriation for support of the

409, 1011

for pay of professors, etc.; rank .

409, 1011

for pay of cadets ; rate ..

409, 1011

traveling allowance .

409

cadets, number at large

410

appointment from Porto Rico

1011

for extra pay, officers ..

410, 1011

longevity pay for enlisted men

410, 1012 410, 1012

for band ...

410, 1012

for field musicians .

410, 1012

for cavalry, etc. , detachments ; extra

pay .

411 , 1012

for pay of civilians .

412 , 1014

for expenses, Board of Visitors

413, 1015

for contingencies, superintendent ... 413, 1015

for repairs and improvements .

413, 1015

for fuel, lights, etc ..

413, 1015

for postage, stationery, etc

413, 1016

for transportation
travel pay two cadets, 1901 for printing

413 , 1016 414
414, 1016

2146

INDEX .

52 BARR BAR REEEEE CAR BARR RR R R RR

Military Academy- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for expenses, department of

cavalry, artillery, and infantry tac-

tics ..

414, 1016

for department of civil and military engi-

neering ..

414, 1016

for department of natural and experi-

mental philosophy ....

414, 1016

for department of mathematics

414, 1016

for department of chemistry, mineral-

ogy, and geology ...

414, 1016

for department of drawing

415, 1017

fordepartment of modern languages . 415, 1017

for department of law and history . 415, 1017

for department of practical military engi-

neering

415 , 1017

for department of ordnance and gun-

nery .

416, 1017

for lectures ..

1018

for miscellaneous and incidental ex-

penses

416, 1018

for library

416 , 1018

for contingencies, academic board ; pur-

chases

416 , 1018

for band instruments, etc

417 , 1019

for laundry, etc ...

417, 1019

for buildings and grounds for water supply. for cadet hospital . for closets and baths

417, 1019
418, 1020 418, 1020
418

for cadet barracks ..
for machinery, plumbing, etc .. for roads, walls, etc .. for ice house ...
for enlargement of buildings, etc .. submission of plans ... contracts ; limitation to architects.
for water main, etc for target range, etc .. for changing quarters for sea wall..
for terrace platform ..
for purchase of Dassouri tract. for lavatory, etc., continued ..

418, 1020 418
419, 1020 419 419 419 419 1021 1021 1021 1021 1021 1021 1021

deficiency appropriation for extra pay enlisted man, library ..
for current expenses for miscellaneous expenses for cadet camp ..........
for general army service admission of Arturo R. Calvo, of Costa
Rica, permitted ... provision for artillery colonels ..

13 13 13 13 564
747 1021

Military Establishment (see Army) .

Military Badges, for service during Chinese relief expedi-

tion may be worn on ceremonial oc-

casions ..

1229

Military Information, Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses .. 507 , 928

for translator, etc ..

511 , 933

clerical pay and subscriptions to papers

permitted ...

928

Military Parks (see National Parks ) .

Military Postal Service,

deficiency appropriation for ....

33

Military Posts, appropriation for buildings , etc ..... 464, 1129

for Manila ; purchase of land, etc ... 465, 1129

for Indianapolis, Ind.; land, etc ..

1129

for additional land, Fort Snelling, Minn . 1129

for Fort Sheridan , Ill.; additional ground 1129

for Skagway, Alaska ; land .

1130

for enlarging Governors Island , N. Y ... 1130

Military Posts- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for, Manila, Phil-

ippine Islands .

12

for railway spur, Fort Snelling, Minn .. 1045

for Fort Brady, Mich., rebuilding barracks 1045 Military Reservations,

buildings for Young Men's Christian As-

sociation authorized on

282



reserved in Philippines

695

Military Reservations, Abandoned,

appropriation for survey, etc .. for custodian, Fort Sherman ..

454, 1117 454, 1117

homesteaders on certain, may purchase

pasture lands; conditions

283

jurisdiction ceded Arkansas over relinquished portion of Fort Smith .... 921

sale of part of Fort Niobrara, authorized .. 283

selections in lieu of school sections in, con-

firmed ....

822

disposal of school sections in case of

indemnity selections ...

823

Military Schools,

militia officers attending, to receive pay

and allowances .

778

Military Storekeeper,

may continue on duty at White House on

full pay when retired

511

Military Stores,

funds from, transferred to Philippines to

remain available .....

.... 563,942

Militia,

classification of male citizens into ...

775

National Guard or organized militia.. 775

Reserve Militia..........

775

exemptions, by occupation

by religious creed .

organized militia, constitution of...

775

to conform to general Army Regulations. 775

minimum of enlisted men

775

privileges of certain existing bodies .

775

to be called forth in case of invasion, etc .. 776

term of service; muster

776

courts-martial for not answering call;

composition ....

776

Articles of War to govern

776

pay and allowances, etc ..

776

appointment of adjutants-general ; duties;

report

776

issue of magazine arms, etc..

777

exchange of new ammunition and arms for

old ..

appropriation for cost of exchanging arms, etc

payment for actual field, etc. , service for

instruction; accounts

777

to participate in Regular Army encamp-

ments, etc ....

allowance to militia officers authorized to

attend military schools

778

allowed use, etc. , of army stores, etc.

778

annual drills, etc. , required ; inspection .. 778

detail of army officers for encampments ;

duties; report

778

for duty with..

779

ammunition for target practice, etc

779

pensions for wounds, etc.; widows ....

779

examinations for commissions in volun-

teers other than organized

779

eligibility; regulations; certificates ..

779

register of eligibles ; further instruction ;

allowances ...

779

appointments ; age limit ; distribution ;

restriction

780

organization of all other volunteers .

780

repeal provision ; effect

INDEX .

2147

Militia, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for expenses

614, 979

for pay of troops ..

614, 980

deficiency appropriation for campexpenses,

etc

560

for printing and stationery

560

members not to be held as officers of the

Government ...

614

disposition of deductions from pay.

614

service in, by Government employees not

to be deducted from leave .

615

Militia, Organized, appropriation for equipping with arms, etc . detail of retired officers for; pay, etc .....
Millard, Corydon, pension increased ..

942 932
1564

Mille Lac Indian Reservation, Minn.,

appropriation for paying improvements of

Indians removing from ..

268

allotments on other reservations to In-

dians removing from ..

268

Miller, Adah I. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1684

Miller, Alfred,

payment to..

487

Miller and Murray,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner

218,

222, 225

Miller, Andrew W.,

pension increased .

1596

Miller, Charles E.,

pension increased .

1471

Miller, David R. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrators of .

210

Miller, Eliza,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

208

Miller, Eliza M. (widow), pension increased ..
Miller, Herman J., pension
Miller, Jacob A. , payment of Court of Claims judgment to ..
Miller, James M. , may accept testimonial from German
Emperor . Miller, John,
pension increased ....

1562 1632 210
1262 1487

Miller, John, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

222, 225

Miller, John D. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

216

Miller, Mary R. (widow),

pension increased ..

1244

Miller, Robert,

pension increased ..

1542

Miller, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

-290202

Miller, William A. ,
pension Miller, William G.,
pension Milligan, Hulda (widow) ,
pension Mills, O. P.,
payment to Milsted, Thomas,
pension increased ...

1546 1493 1521 490 1361

Milward, Kate W. (widow),

pension increased ..

1416

Milwaukee River, Wis.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 384

Milwaukee, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor,

and harbor of refuge...

345

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers' Home . 469, 1133

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

14, 1048

preliminary examination for improving

harbor, to be made .

384

Mine Inspectors,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 158 , 893 Mineral Lands, Montana and Idaho,

deficiency appropriation for expenses, classifying ..
Mineral Lands, Philippines, provisions for locating claims .. placer locations........ appointment of deputy surveyors . reserved from grants to provinces, etc. , for public works ..
Mineral Oil Lands,
entries for, Philippines ... Mineral Resources ofthe United States,

1056
697 702 703
706
702

appropriation for preparing report on .. 455 , 1118

for printing annual report on ................... 480, 1146

Mines in Territories,

air space to be provided ..

631

removal of coal dust ..

632

shot firers required in Indian Territory

coal mines ; regulations.

632

penalty for violations ...

632

Mines, Philippine,

regulations for working, etc ..

704

Mining Corporations, may be adjudged involuntary bankrupts . 797

Mining Dbris, Cal.,

appropriation for restraining; contracts ... 369

contribution by State

369

Mining Industries,

duty of Department of Commerce and

Labor as to

826

Minneapolis, Minn. ,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 312

appropriation for..

425, 1087

Minneapolis, Superior, Saint Paul and Winnipeg Railway Company,
may bridge Mississippi River, Minn ...... 407

Minnesota,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 898

deficiency appropriation for surveyor-gen-

eral

573, 1056

opening of Chippewa Indian reservations

to entry, etc ..

400

town entries extended to ceded Indian

lands in ..

820

Minnesota Judicial District,

additional judge authorized

795

deficiency appropriation for

1064

Minnesota Point, Minn.,

appropriation for depot, Eleventh lighthouse district .
Minnesota River, Minn.,
removal of dam at mouth of, authorized ..

1093 363

Minnisceongo River, N. Y. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380
Minor Coins,

appropriation for transporting .

447, 1109

Minor Coins, Philippine (see also Philippine

Coinage) ,

coinage authorized .

710

Minor, Edward,

deficiency appropriation for expenses, etc. 570

2148

INDEX.

Minority Employees, House of Representatives, Page. appropriation for employment of ...... 127, 860
Minors, D. C.,

not permitted in billiard rooms, etc. , con-

nected with barrooms .

202

Mints and Assay Offices (see also Director of the Mint),

appropriation for Director, examiner,

assayer, etc..

140, 874

for freight on bullion and coin .

140, 875

for examinations, etc ..

140, 875

for collecting precious metals statistics . 140, 875

for salaries and expenses, Carson, Nev . 145 , 879

Denver, Colo ...

145 , 880

New Orleans, La .

146, 880

Philadelphia, Pa .

146, 880

San Francisco, Cal

146, 880

Boise, Idaho

146, 881

Charlotte, N. C.

146, 881

Deadwood, S. Dak

147, 881

Helena, Mont

147, 881

New York, N. Y

147, 881

Saint Louis, Mo.

147 , 881

Seattle, Wash

147, 881

for San Francisco, new machinery

448

for Denver, machinery, etc ...

1109

deficiency appropriation for Seattle, Wash . 10, 28, 559, 1041

for San Francisco ..

10, 1076

coinage of gold dollar authorized for Loui-

siana Purchase Exposition

446

for Philippine government authorized 710 medallions authorized for Thomas Jeffer-

son Memorial Association

1227

authorized for Washington Monument Association, Alexandria, Va ......
Mischler, Caroline, widow, pension increased ..

715 1300

Misdemeanors (see Crimes and Offenses) .

Misner, Charles,

pension increased ..

1317

Mispillion River, Del., appropriation for improvement of........ 350

Mission Indians, Cal. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ........ 257 purchase of land, and allotment to

Indians .

257

commission to allot lands, etc ..

257

for counsel ..

474, 1140

for reimbursing American Surety Company
deficiency appropriation for support, etc .. for expenses of Commission
land granted to California in lieu of section occupied by

999 22
1059
822

proclamation restoring part of lands of, to public domain..
additional ...
use of appropriation to purchase lands for . for expenses of Commission

1970 2005
999 999

Mission-Tule Agency, Cal.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246, 983

Mississippi Choctaws,

appropriation for aiding indigent

997

enrollment and allotment of lands to .... 651

Mississippi River,

appropriation for improvement of South-

west Pass

339, 1127

South Pass ..

340

for preventing cutting through, Walnut

Bend, Ark

357

for survey, etc. , of, waterway Illinois

River to Saint Louis

364

engineer board to report, etc ..

364

Mississippi River-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for improvement of reservoirs at headwaters ; distribution .. 364

forimprovement of; Minneapolis to Saint

Paul ....

365, 463, 1125

Saint Paul to mouth of the Missouri;

additional contracts ...

365, 1127

distribution .

365

from the Missouri to the Ohio ; addi-

tional contracts ...

366, 1127

from the Ohio to Head of the Passes;

additional contracts ...

366, 1128

general survey authorized .

366

distribution

367

for lighting ...

433, 1094

preliminary examination of, to be made at

Moline, Ill

377

Quincy Harbor, Ill

377

Quincy to Sny Levee

377

Wickliffe, Ky

378

bridge authorized across, Crow Wing

County, Minn

391

between Champlain and Anoka, Minn.. 407

at Little Falls, Minn .

505

examination at foot of Des Moines Rapids

for dam, etc ...

366

rebuilding draw of bridge, Quincy, Ill . ,

authorized

120

time extended for bridging, at Burlington,

Iowa ....

74

permanent appropriation for gauging in-

creased

374

removal of dredges

367

Mississippi River Commission,

appropriation for expenses, improvements, Head of Passes to mouth of the

Ohio .....

366, 1128

additional contracts ..

366

dredges, etc.; operation

367

special improvements

367

for repair of levee, Walnut Bend, Ark.. 357

for survey of Mississippi River from Illi-

nois River to Saint Louis .....

364

Mississippi River, Hamburg and Western Rail-

way Company,

time extended for bridging Bayou Bar-

tholomew, Ark...

41

Missouri and Meramec Water Company,

may take water from Missouri and Mera-

mec rivers....

55

Missouri Chute, Mo., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Missouri River,

appropriation for improvement of, Sioux

City to Stubbs Ferry .

367

Sioux City to mouth

367

for lighting..

433, 1094

bridge authorized across, at Chamberlain,

S. Dak

833

Council Bluffs, Iowa, to Omaha, Nebr.. 204

between Kansas and Missouri

754

Kansas City, Mo .. Oacoma, S. Dak

56,918 762

Parkville, Mo

102

Plattsmouth, Nebr.

496

Pierre, S. Dak ..

658

Saint Joseph, Mo.

36

South Omaha, Nebr

91

dams, etc. , authorized for water supply,

Saint Louis County, Mo ..

55

time extended for bridge, Oacoma, S. Dak. 305

Saint Charles, Mo

181

Yankton, S. Dak...

25

INDEX.

2149

Missouri River Bridge Company,

Page.

may bridge Missouri River at Chamber-

lain , S. Dak

833

Missouri River Commission, to terminate after June 30, 1902 .. report of proceedings, etc transfer of property to Secretary of War.. improvements to be carried on by Secretary of War...
Missouri, Western Judicial District, return requested from President of bill relating to
Mitcham, O. B.,

367 368 368
368
1773

deficiency appropriation for expenses .... 1047

Mitchell, Aaron,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Mitchell, Etta Scott (widow) ,

pension increased .

1267

Mitchell, Jethro,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Mitchell, Obed,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Mitchell, Samuel S. , pension increased .
Mixed Flour,

1706

defined to consist of any mixture with

wheat flour.............

99

Moberly, Mo. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

317, 1206

appropriation for .

429

deficiency appropriation for .

1038

provision for public building, in omnibus

act, transposed

745

Mobile, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

339, 1126

transfer of sewer connections with city ... 421

Mobile and Girard Railroad,

homestead certificates allowed parties hold-

ing title to lands in Alabama from .. 1222

Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company,

deficiency appropriation for

557

Mobile, Jackson and Kansas City Railroad

Company,

granted right of way, etc. , Choctaw Point,

Ala ...

119

Moderwell, Erastus C. ,

pension increased ..

1341

"Modoc," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation, referred to

Court of Claims ...

244

"Mogul," British Steamship,

claim for damages, collision with Army

transport, to be examined ..........

1048

Moieties,

appropriation for compensation in lieu

of

449, 1111

deficiency appropriation for compensation

in lieu of.....

1036

Molel Indians, appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 251 , 987

"Monadnock," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation , turrets of,

referred to Court of Claims ...

244

Monetary Systems of Nations,

appropriation for cooperating to maintain

fixed relationship of gold and silver

in

1138

66

Money- Order Conventions, with Bolivia with Canada with Greece ...

Page. 1868 1875 1924

Money- Order System, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, etc ... 164, 900

for supplies

113 , 1171

deficiency appropriation for

32

Monfort, Peter C. ,

pension increased ..

1301

Mongolian Labor, not allowed on irrigation construction .... 389

Monitors, Light-Draft,

claims for further compensation, referred

to Court of Claims

244

basis of investigation ....

244

Monmouth, Ill.,

limit of cost increased, public building .

311

appropriation for

425

Monomoy Island, Mass.,

life-saving station established ..

285

Monongahela River, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of, Lock

and Dam 2 ; contracts ....

350

for reconstructing Lock and Dam 2 ..

1127

bridge authorized across, in Allegheny

County, Pa..

839

Clairton Station , Pa ..

58

Webster, Pa ...

850

between West Elizabeth and Dravos-

burg

497

height may be reduced of bridge across, at

Pittsburg, Pa ..

75

preliminary examination of, to be made; Locks and Dams 1 , 3, 4, and 5 ..... 382

Monongahela River, W. Va.,

appropriation for improvement of dams on

Upper ....

462

bridge authorized across, Morgantown,

W. Va ..

71

Monopolies,

appropriation for enforcing laws against .. 904

Monroe, Henry,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Monroe, James,

calendars of correspondence, ordered

printed

1768

Monroe, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 361

Montana,

appropriation for surveyor-general , clerks,

etc

163, 898

for incidental expenses, Indian service,

in

257,993

for survey of boundary line with Idaho . 1117

deficiency appropriation for surveyor-

general

587, 1056, 1057

for incidentals, Indian service

587

proclamation establishing Absaroka Forest

Reserve ...

2027

consolidated with Yellowstone Forest

Reserve ...

2030

Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve.. 2022

Madison Forest Reserve ...

2024

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

selections in lieu of forest lands on ceded

Blackfeet Reservation , confirmed .. 955

Montana and Idaho Customs District,

port of entry, Great Falls, Mont..

485

Montanye, Samuel H. ,

pension .

1746

2150

INDEX .

Monterey, Mexico, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ...

Page. 81 , 813 86, 818

Montevideo, Uruguay, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Montgomery, Ala. ,

limit of cost increased , public building... 310

appropriation for ..

425, 1087

rights of United States to certain lands in,

relinquished

787

terms of court .

820

of circuit court of appeals.

784

Montgomery, Charles M.,

pension increased ..

1403

Montgomery, Henry P.,

payment to.

1697

Montgomery, J. R. ,

payment to ..

487

Montgomery, Sarah E. ,

paymentto .

490

Montgomery, William, pension increased ..
Montreal, Quebec, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire .....

1599
81, 813 86, 818

Montrose, Colo.,

grant of land to, for reservoir, etc.; price,

location...

841

terms of court at ..

833

court, etc. , transferred from Del Norte to . Monty, James,
pension increased ......... Monuments,

833 1692

appropriation for, site of Fort Phil Kearny

massacre .

175

for, to Gen. Hugh Mercer .

491

for prison ship, Brooklyn , N. Y

747

for expenses of guests, dedication of

Rochambeau .

738, 741

for statue, etc. , of Brigadier-General

Count Pulaski ..

908

for statue, etc. , of Major-General Baron

von Steuben ..

908

for, to Gen. Francis Nash

1229

for, to Gen. William Lee Davidson

1229

erection of statue to Benjamin F. Stephen-

son on a reservation , Washington.

D. C. , permitted .........

740

in honor of William E. Shipp permitted on grounds of mint, Charlotte, N. C. 739

Moody, Esther F. (widow) ,

pension

1238

Moody, Hon. J. M. , late a Representative in Con-

gress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

1068

Moody, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221 , 233

Mooney, Phillip,

pension increased ..

1632

Moore, Agatha,

payment to; administratrix

486

Moore, Catherine, pension
Moore, James, pension increased ..
Moore, John L., pension increased ..
Moore, John W., pension
Moore, Lewis W., pension increased ....
Moore, Mary A. (widow) , pension increased ...

1242 1357 1550 1337 1298 1524

Moore, Mary J. (widow),

Page.

pension .

1501

Moore, Robert, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 212

Moore, Samuel J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Moore, Thompson B.,

pension increased .

1339

Moore, William T.,

pension increased .

1717

Moores, Mahlon C.,

pension increased .

1285

Moors Rock, Ark. ,

bridge authorized across Arkansas River at 926

" Morals of Jesus of Nazareth,"

printing ordered of Thomas Jefferson's... 1769

Moran, Patrick,

pension increased .

1367

Morehouse, Stephen B.,

pension increased .

1736

Morgan, David C. ,

pension increased .

1581

Morgan, Edwin V. , may accept testimonial from German

Emperor ..

1262

Morgan, Mary (mother) ,

pension increased ..

1324

Morgan, Mary E. W. ( widow ) ,

pension

1240

Morgan Memorial Association, Winchester, Va.,

loan of Revolutionary relics to ..

743

Morganroth, Newton,

payment to

1453

Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Railroad and

Steamship Company,

deficiency appropriation for army trans-

portation

1045

payment to, for carrying mails

405

Morgantown, W. Va.,

bridge authorized across Monongahela

River at..

71

Morley, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1713

Morman, Thomas J.,

granted honorable discharge ..................

1614

Mormon Channel, Cal.,

appropriation forimprovement of; canal 368, 1127

Morning Gun,

appropriation for firing, at military posts,

etc

520,942

Morrill, Visa C. (widow), pension .
Morrill, W. W. , payment to ..
Morris, James, pension increased ....
Morris, Minn., appropriation for Indian school ......
Morrison, Ann M. (widow) , pension increased.....

1713 1453 1272
271 , 1004 1594

Morrison, Frances K. (widow),

pension increased ..

1294

Morrison, J. W.,

payment to

1453

Morrison, John C.,

pension increased ..

1252

Morrison, Mary E. ,

payment to

487

Morrow, Sarah E. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1569

Morse, Eliakim,

payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

ecutors of

230

Morse, Jerome E., transfer on Navy retired list authorized . 1444

INDEX .

2151

Mortar Carriages, appropriation for

Page. 307, 1025

Mortars,

appropriation for new firing mechanism .. 1025

Mortgages, D. C. (see also Deeds of Trust, D. C. ) ,

provisions of Code for assignments, re-

pealed

532

Mortgages, Indian Territory,

provisions for recording .

841

Morton, George H. ,

pension .. Moscow, Russia,
appropriation for consul at

1270 83, 815

Moseley, Edward A. ,

deficiency appropriation for

11

Moses, William B.,

settlement of liability of administrators of,

on bond of H. W. Howgate .

1611

Mosgrove, John,

pension increased .

1736

Mosier, Alfred N.,

pension increased .

1285

Moss, J. McKenzie,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses ..

582

Mote, Joseph,

pension increased ......

1512

Motter, Isaac,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of..............

211

Motter, John,

payment to ..

488

Moulton, Amos,

pension increased .

1432

Moulton, Linda F. (widow),

pension increased ..

1693

Mount Graham Forest, Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation establishing

2017

Mount Pleasant, Mich. ,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 271 , 1004

Mount Rainier National Park,

appropriation for roadway.

1131

Mountain Branch Volunteer Soldiers' Home (see

Johnson City, Tenn. ) .

Mountain Guns,

appropriation for, and carriages

308

Mourning, National,

day of burial of the late President McKin-

ley appointed a day of .... Mukilteo Point. Wash.,
light-house and fog signal established at....
appropriation for Mulford, Joseph W. ,
pension Mulholland, Andrew,
pension increased ..

1987
765 765 1239
1254

Mull, John T. ,

pension increased .

1554

Mullan, Virginia L.,

payment to ..

239

Mullican, John, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211
Mulligan, John E. deficiency appropriation for services ..... 573

Mullin, Michael,

pension

1507

Mullins, William S.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .......

208

Mumma, Anna E.,

payment to

488

Mumma, J. J. ,

payment to

489

Mumma, Samuel, payment to estate of ...
Muncie, Ind.,

Page. 489

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1087

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

558

Munich, Germany,

appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ...

81 , 813 86, 818

Municipal Building, Washington, D. C.,

acquiring site; location ...

321

removal of electric railway tracks .

321

condemnation proceedings

321

contract for construction ; half from Dis-

trict revenues

321

officer in charge ; compensation ..

321

appropriation for construction

429

deficiency appropriation for construction . 1039

title to site transferred to District ..

1206

limit of cost increased ....

1206

Municipal Courts, Philippines, appointment of judges
Municipal Lodging House, etc. , D. C., appropriation for .

695 613, 979

Municipalities, Philippines, bond issue authorized for public improve-

ments

707

taxes to be levied to meet interest, etc., of

bonds

708

Munn, Evarts Ewing ( widow) ,

pension ...

1685

Munson, Margaret A. (widow) ,

pension ..

1657

Munson, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1535

Murderkill River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of........................ 350

Murdock, Alexander,

pension increased..

1502

Murdock, Hugh,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to. 213

Murgatroyd, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

218

Murgatroyd and Sons, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

226

Murphy, Henry E.,

pension increased ..

1416

Murphy, John,

pension increased....

1451

Murphy, John,

pension increased ..

1595

Murphy, Mary (widow),

pension increased.

1719

Murphy, Michael,

pension increased ..

1743

Murphy, Minerva (daughter) , pension
Murphy, Patrick J., pension

1742 1383

Murphy, Pauline Lowe (widow),

pension increased ....

1268

Murray, Angeline (widow),

pension increased ..

1275

Murray, Edward D. ,

payment to

1453

Muscatine, Iowa,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

365

purchase of public building site authorized . 320

appropriation for .

429

2152

INDEX .

Muscle Shoals, Ala., time extended for constructing canal, etc. , at .
Muscle Shoals Power Company,
time extended for constructing canal, etc. Muscogee Indians (see Creek Indians) . Musgrove, Richard W. ,
pension increased .

Page. 839 839
1239

Muskegon, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 343

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site..

317

appropriation for .

426, 1087

restriction on site for public building, re-

moved ....

764

Muskogee Nation ( see Creek Indians) .

Muskingum River, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of........ 360 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Myers, George W.,

pension increased .

1328

Myers, James S.,

pension increased .

1461

Mystic River, Mass. , appropriation for improvement of.................. 348

N.

Nace, John M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

209

Naco, Ariz. ,

made subport of entry .

484

Nagasaki, Japan, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Nalley, Elizabeth A. (daughter),

pension

1498

Nance, John W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ....

214

Nandua Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 351

Nanking, China,

appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Nantes, France, appropriation for consul at

85, 817

Nantucket, Mass. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 333

Nantucket Sound, Mass., examination for harbor of refuge directed . 333

Napa River, Cal., appropriation for improvement of ........ 368 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376

Naples, Italy, appropriation for consul at
for clerk hire ...

83,815 86, 818

Narragansett Bay, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 462

Narragansett Pier, R. I.,

appropriation for Weather Bureau cable

from Block Island to ......

1149

Nasal River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of..................... 370

Nash, Brig. Gen. Francis,

appropriation for monument to..

1229

Nashua, N. H.,

appropriation for fish hatchery

1106

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1088

Nashville, Tenn.,

appropriation for public building ..... 314, 1088

bridge authorized across Cumberland Riv-

er at..

390

limit of cost increased , public building . 314, 1205

Nashville Terminal Company,

Page.

may bridge Cumberland River, Nashville,

Tenn ..

390

Nassau, New Providence,
appropriation for consul at Natchez, Miss.,

83, 815

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for Natchitoches, La. ,

428, 1088

purchase of public building site author-

ized

321

appropriation for

429

construction of public building authorized

at ..

1207

deficiency appropriation for .

1038

National Banks (see also National Currency),

charters may be further extended 20 years. 102

expenses, lquidation of, to be annually

reported

138

reserve cities to have a population of

25,000 ..

1223

National Banks, D. C. ,

personal tax on..

619

National Bureau of Standards, D. C.,

appropriation for Director, assistants, etc. 140,874

for apparatus, etc

140,874

for contingencies

140, 874

for building laboratory. deficiency appropriation for rent . limit of cost increased for building .

422, 1090 554 315

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor.....

826

National Cemeteries,

appropriation for additional land, Loudon

Park, Md .

193

for road to, Dover, Tenn

277

for maintenance .

463, 1128

for repair, etc., Fort Crawford tion, Wis...
for superintendents for headstones............
for repairing roadways . for stone wall, Presidio, Cal . for road to Springfield, Mo.

Reserva1128
463, 1128 463, 1128 464, 1128 464, 1128
464

for Camp Chase, Ohio, Confederate cem-

etery

464

National Currency,

appropriation for superintendent, redemp-

tion of, clerks, etc ..

137,872

for expenses of; superintendent, etc 138,872

for special examinations, etc

138,872

for distinctive paper, etc

448, 1110

deficiency appropriation for clerks, re-

demption of...

1033

for counters, redemption of..

1034

National Defense,

deficiency appropriation for; balance reap-

propriated, Navy

15

for Army

29,585

National Florence CrittentonMission, D. C. , The,

charter amended

824

National Guard ( see also Militia) ,

organized militia of the States, etc. , to be

known as

775

National Guard, D. C. ( see Militia, D. C. ).

National Herbarium, United States,

appropriation for printing..

440

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for expenses, Dayton,

Ohio ....

468, 1132

Milwaukee, Wis.

469, 1133

Togus, Me

469, 1134

INDEX .

2153

National Home for Disabled Volunteer Sol- Page. diers- Continued .

appropriation for expenses, Hampton,

Va

470, 1134

Leavenworth, Kans .

470, 1134

Santa Monica, Cal

470, 1135

Marion, Ind .

471 , 1135

Danville, Ill...

471 , 1136

Johnson City, Tenn...

472, 1136

Battle Mountain Sanitarium, S. Dak.. 282,

1136

for clothing, all Branches .

472, 1137

for salaries and expenses, Board of Man-

agers

472, 1137

for State and Territorial Homes .... 472 , 1137

deficiency appropriation for construction,

Mountain Branch, Johnson City,

Tenn

13

for expenses, Dayton, Ohio .. 14, 564, 586, 1048

Milwaukee, Wis .

14, 1048

Togus, Me

14, 1049

Hampton, Va

14, 564, 589, 1049

Leavenworth, Kans . Marion, Ind ...

14,564 , 1049 14, 1049

Santa Monica, Cal

14, 29, 1073

Danville, Ill..

..14, 564, 1049, 1073

for expenses, Board of Managers ..

15

for State and Territorial Homes

15, 1049

for clothing

30, 1073

for paying judgment, Dayton Branch .. 564 disposal of pension balance due deceased

members

564

additional copies of report of Board of Managers, ordered printed
jurisdiction over Dayton grounds ceded to Ohio
managers appointed

1764
732 738

new buildings not to be built from appro-

priations for repairs ....

1135

construction, etc. , appropriations to be

immediately available hereafter .... 1137

qualifications of appointment of officers

and Board of Managers

472

National Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1080

National Museum,

appropriation for salaries, fixtures, etc. 4439, 1101

for heating, lighting, etc...

39, 1101

for preserving, etc. , collections..

439, 1101

for specimens to supply deficiencies . 439 , 1101

for books, repairs, etc.

440, 1101

for rent, etc ..

440, 1102

for plans, additional building; cost

440

forcommencement ofnew building; cost. 1102

for printing and binding " Bulletins" and

"Proceedings"

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for preserving

collections

28, 1075

construction of new building to be in

charge of Bernard R. Green ..... 1102

National Parks,

appropriation for Chickamauga and Chat-

tanooga ..

466, 1131

for General Grant

456, 1119

for Gettysburg for Sequoia.. for Shiloh ..

466, 1131 456, 1119 466, 1131

for Vicksburg

466, 1131

for Yellowstone for Yosemite

456, 466, 1119, 1130 456, 1119

for Crater Lake .

1119

for Wind Cave

1119

for Mount Rainier, Wash .

1130

for monuments, etc. , to Regulars, Gettys-

burg ...

838

National Parks-Continued. deficiency appropriation for Crater Lake... for Yellowstone, purchase of buffalo for Chickamauga and Chattanooga. for Sequoia, Cal for General Grant, Cal . Crater Lake, Oreg. , established . Wind Cave, S. Dak. , established .

Page. 571 574 1048 1060 1060 202 765

National Zoological Park, D. C. (see Zoolog-

ical Park, D. C. , National ) . Naturalization,

of anarchists forbidden ..

1222

of aliens violating immigration law for-

bidden .....

1222

duties of judges to inquire; certificate to state facts, or void ..
punishmentforillegally procuring or aiding law to be enforced in ninety days ......

1222
1222 1222

Nautical Almanac and American Ephemeris,

appropriation for preparing

155, 889

copies to be printed ..

740

distribution of..

678, 740

Nautical Almanac Office, Navy Department,

appropriation for assistants, etc...

155, 889

for preparing Nautical Almanac and

American Ephemeris ...

155 , 889

Navajo Agency, N. Mex. , appropriation for Indian agent at .... 246, 983

......

Navajo County, Ariz.,

refund of debt authorized

330

Navajo Indian Reservation, Ariz. ,

appropriation for purchase of rights, etc. ,

of settlers in ....

264

rights of prior settlers on extension of,

confirmed ...

657

Naval Academy,
appropriation for buildings and grounds .. 676, 1188

for pay of professors, etc for band ..

685, 1195 685, 1196

for watchmen, mechanics, etc
for pay of steam employees ... for special training, midshipmen for sailboats ...

685, 1196 685, 1196 685, 1196
685

for repairs and improvements for heating and lighting. for contingent .. for expenses, Board of Visitors for payment to Walter L. Steward for memorial historic tablets

685, 1196 686, 1196 686, 1196 686, 1196
686 1188

deficiency appropriation for cadets' tem-

porary quarters, etc ...

568

additional number of midshipmen author-

ized

686

number of midshipmen increased ..

1197

appointment on failure to recommend .. 1197

notification of vacancies to occur

1197

distribution of increase.

1197

punishment for hazing .

1198

increase of midshipmen appointments, to

continue ten years ....

1198

appointment of midshipman from Porto

Rico ......

1198

age qualifications changed .

1198

commission appointed to select sites for

historic tablets .

1188

limit of cost for new buildings, etc. , in-

creased; plans...

1188

naval cadets to be styled midshipmen ..

686

purchase of Maclay's history of Spanish-

American war forbidden

686

Naval Apprentices, appropriation for outfits ..
for training stations ..

664, 1178 664, 1178

2154

INDEX.

Naval Cadets (see also Midshipmen) , title changed to midshipmen ..
Naval Constructors,

Page. 686

appointment of additional assistant, au-

thorized

683

Naval Establishment (see also Navy) ,

construction authorized of two first-class

battle ships, 16,000-ton ; cost

690

three first-class battle ships, 16,000 -ton ;

cost ..

1202

two first-class battle ships, 13,000-ton ;

cost.. two armored cruisers; cost

1202 690

two gunboats ; cost . two steel training sail ships ; cost one wooden brig for training; cost contracts, place of construction ....

690 1202 1202 690, 1202

one to be built on Pacific coast; condi-

tion

690

one battle ship to be built at a navy-

yard ..

691

may all be built in navy-yards in case of combination by builders ..... 691 , 1202

report of cost of ships under contract and

at navy-yards

691

equipment of yards provided for .

691

purchase of submarine torpedo boats au-

thorized

1202

competitive tests of American inventions

prior to purchase .

1202

satisfactory tests to be made before pur-

chase .

1203

appropriation for submarine torpedo boats 1203

for construction and machinery, new ves-

sels ....

691 , 1203

forarmorand armament, new vessels . 691 , 1203

for equipment, new vessels .

691 , 1203

for reserve guns for auxiliary cruisers;

purchases ..

666

for reserve guns, ships of the Navy

666

deficiency appropriation for armament ,

new vessels

16

Naval Home, Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation for; to be paid from naval

pension fund ..

665, 1179

Naval Intelligence Office, appropriation for clerks, etc ..

153 , 888

Naval Magazine, New England, appropriation for board to select site for.. 1189

Naval Militia,

appropriation for arming and equip-

ping .

666, 1180

Naval Militia, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses .

560

Naval Observatory,

appropriation for assistants, etc .................. 154, 889

for computations, books, apparatus,

etc

155 , 889

for contingent, etc. , expenses ..

155, 889

for grounds and roads...

678, 1189

deficiency appropriation for W. Walter

Dinwiddie

15

for contingent, etc. , expenses .

1049

distribution of Nautical Almanac

678, 740

Naval Prison,

appropriation for Portsmouth, N. H. , bal-

ance reappropriated

1185

Naval Records ofthe Rebellion,

appropriation for clerks, etc. , office of.. 153, 887

for continuing publication ..

153, 887

Naval Supplies,

deficiency appropriation for

94

Naval Training Stations, appropriation for maintenance, fornia ... Rhode Island .
for public works, California .. Rhode Island ..

Page. Cali-
664, 1178 664, 1178 676, 1188 677, 1188

for expenses selecting site on Great

Lakes ..

665

Naval War College,

appropriation for maintenance.. for public buildings .

665, 1179 677

Navigation, Bureau of, Treasury,

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor...

826

Navigation, Commissioner of, appropriation for, clerks, etc

139,873

to issue American register to bark " Otto

Gildemeister" and change name to

46 Homeward Bound "

198

Navy (see also Naval Establishment ) ,

appropriation for pay additional men authorized

662, 1177 1177

for pay, miscellaneous ...

662, 1177

allowance for repeated traveling

663

for contingent . bringing remains from abroad

663, 1177 663

for emergency fund

663, 1178

transit pay civilians on insular duty .. 663 for Bureau of Navigation; transporta-

tion, etc

663, 1178

gunnery exercises ; outfits ..

664, 1178

maintenance of colliers ..

664, 1178

training stations

664, 1178

War College .

665, 1179

Naval Home

665, 1179

for Bureau of Ordnance

665, 1179

reserve guns ..

666

torpedo station

666, 1180

Naval Militia ..

666, 1180

for Bureau of Equipment ..

667, 1181

coal depots..

668

for Bureau of Yards and Docks

669, 1182

public works

671, 1185

dry docks..

675

report on Port Royal station ..

675

Guantanamo, Cuba, naval station ... 1188

for Bureau of Navigation ; public

works ....

676, 1188

for Bureau of Ordnance; public

works...

677, 1189

for Naval Observatory

678, 1189

distribution of Nautical Almanac

678

for Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. 678 , 1190

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts . 679, 1190

ration and substituted ration ..

680

clothing and small stores fund in-

creased

1191

for Bureau of Construction and Re-

pair

682, 1193

construction plants

682, 1193

for Bureau of Steam Engineering . 683, 1194

machinery plants ..

684, 1194

testing laboratory, Annapolis, Md

1194

for Naval Academy.

685, 1195

naval cadets to be named midshipmen 686

additional number of midshipmen au-

thorized

686

increase in officers, midshipmen, and

Marine Corps

1197

purchase of Maclay's history prohib-

ited

688

for Marine Corps

686, 1199

contracts with Carnegie Steel Com-

pany

690

INDEX .

2155

Nary-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for increase of naval estab-

lishment ...

 690, 1202

building in navy-yards authorized

691

for submarine torpedo boats.....

1202

for construction and steam machin-

ery for armor and armament

691 , 1203 691 , 1203

for equipment ..

691, 1203

for pensions.. for losses, wreck of " Charleston "

62, 761 804

deficiency appropriation for national de-

fense; reappropriation

15

for small gunboats, etc. , Manila ..

15

for pay, miscellaneous ... 15 , 30, 586 , 1050, 1073

for Bureau of Navigation ..

15,

30,566, 567, 1050, 1051 , 1073

for Bureau of Equipment ..

16,

30, 566, 567 , 1050, 1051 , 1073, 1076

for Bureau of Ordnance

16,

30,566, 586, 1050 , 1051 , 1073 , 1076

for Bureau of Yards and Docks ...

17,

566, 567, 1051

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts ... 17,

30, 566, 586, 589, 1051 , 1073, 1076

for Bureau of Medicine and Surgery .

17,

566, 568, 1050, 1051 , 1073

for Marine Corps

17,

30, 566, 568, 586, 589 , 1050 , 1052, 1073

for pay

30, 565, 586, 589, 1053, 1073, 1076

for indemnity, lost property.

31,

586, 587, 589, 1051 , 1074, 1076

for destruction of clothing, etc ... 31 , 589 , 1074
for bounty, destroying enemy's vessels .. 31 , 587, 1074

for enlistment bounties . 31 , 587 , 589, 1074, 1076

for extra pay, Pacific coast service for pensions .. for supplies

31 62, 1074
94

for reimbursing " general account of

advances"

565

for emergency fund .

565, 1050

for contingent ...

566, 1050

for Bureau of Steam Engineering

566 ,

568, 1051 , 1073

for Naval Academy.

568

for owners of barge " Export

569

for Jonathan Brooks ...

569

for Howard P. Ash

569

for owners of schooner "Florence

Whelan"

569

for W. H. Whiting

569

for transportation of officers' effects ..

569

for lost property..

589

for Bureau of Construction and Repair . 1051 , 1073, 1076

for Michael Connolly

1053

for Piper, Aden, Goodall Company

1053

for owners of ship " Louis Walsh"

1053

for owners of scow " Delaware"

1053

for owners Canacao shipyard, damages . for Charles W. Littlefield for E. D. Ryan .. for F. T. Evans . for California State prison.

1053 1054 1054 1054 1054

for owners of light-ship on Woosung bar for prize money, battle of Manila Bay . for indemnity for lost clothing. additional civil engineers authorized .. assistant naval constructors authorized . lieutenant-commanders and lieutenants
authorized

1054 1072 1074 671 683
1197

lieutenants (junior grade) and ensigns . 1197

medical officers ..

1197

Navy-Continued .

Page.

additional pay officers

1197

constructors and assistant constructors . 1197

civil engineer and assistant civil engi-

neers

1197

pay and promotion of assistants .
yearly increase to fill grades .. appointment of twelve ensigns yearly from
warrant officers

1197 1197
1197

additional midshipmen authorized ; ap-

pointment

1197

officers advanced under existing laws not

affected by new provisions .

1198

additional officers and men in Marine

Corps, authorized

1198

nomination authorized, of R. M. G. Brown

as commander, retired list ..

63

Robert Platt as commander, retired list. 796

William P. Randall as commander, re-

tired list .

796

John Walton Ross as medical director. 797

John Russell Bartlett as rear-admiral,

retired list

821

William McCarty Little as captain, re-

tired list .

850

James G. Field as assistant surgeon

1366

...

Julius A. Kaiser as assistant engineer,

retired list

1571

Edward Kershner as medical inspector,

retired list

1278

promotion authorized of William Victor Tomb, as ensign
rank of Chief Engineer David Smith advanced

1504 796

transfer of Jerome E. Morse on retired

list

1444

Navy Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc ....

153, 887

estimate and report of clerks, etc. , on

increase of Navy to be made

887

for care of rented building ..

887

for clerks, etc. , library

153, 887

office Naval Records of the Rebel-

lion ....

153, 887

continuing publication .

153, 887

Judge-Advocate-General's Office ... 153, 887

Bureau of Navigation

153, 888

Naval Intelligence Office .

153,888

Bureau of Equipment ..

153, 888

for Hydrographic Office . for Naval Observatory..

154, 888 155, 889

for assistants, etc. , Nautical Almanac

Office .

155, 889

for clerks, etc. , Bureau of Steam Engi-

neering .

155, 889

Bureau of Construction and Repair. 155, 890

Bureau of Ordnance..

155, 890

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts ... 155, 890

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery 155, 890

Bureau of Yards and Docks

156, 890

for books and periodicals . for contingent expenses

156, 890 156, 890

for rent; allowance for additional room. 156

for expenses of moving furniture, etc. ,

rented building .

890

for rent, fuel, and light

890

for printing and binding

480, 1145

for naval service ...

662, 1177

for emergency fund, Navy . for wharf, Newport, R. I..

663, 1178 1138

deficiency appropriation for Navy.

15 ,

30, 94, 565, 586, 589, 1049, 1073, 1076

for Naval Observatory

15, 1049

2156

INDEX .

Navy-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for emergency

fund .

30, 586, 589, 1050, 1073

for printing and binding for rent of additional quarters

285 , 1069 565

for expenses of maintenance, new

quarters

565

for Hydrographic Office..

1073

printing of Nautical Almanac authorized . 740

statistical or scientific work in, may be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor ..

830

Navy-Yards and Stations,

appropriation for repairs and preserva-

tion

676, 1186

for equipping, for constructing vessels.. 691

battle ship to be built at one of the

691

construction of new vessels at, in case of

combinations by builders ................. 691 , 1202

Nay may puck,

allotment of lands to , Red Lake Reserva-

tion, Minn ..

261

Neal, Elizabeth (widow),

pension

1655

Neary, Annie A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1572

Nebraska,

indemnity school lands confirmed to...

105

proclamation establishing Dismal River

Forest Reserve

1995

Niobrara Forest Reserve

1993

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

Neches River, Tex. ,

appropriation for improvement of mouth . 355

Neet, John S., jr.,

payment to .

239

Negley, Grace A. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1617

Negotiable Instruments, D. C.,

provisions of Code not applicable to instru-

mentsmade before January 12, 1899 . 543

effect of legal holidays .....

543

Nelson, Jere,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Nelson, John C., pension increased
Nelson, John S.,
pension Nelson, Thomas L. ,
pension increased..

1531 1333 1391

Nelson, William A.,

pension

1591

Neosho, Mo.,

appropriation for fish hatchery .

1106

Nestell, John,

fee simple patents to.......

1008

Net Lake Indian Reservation, Minn. , appropriation for surveying and allotting . 268

Netherlands,

appropriation for minister to

76

for secretary of legation ..

77

Netherlands, and Luxemburg,

appropriation for minister to

807

for secretary of legation

808

Neuse River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...

352

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

bridge authorized across, at Kinston ..

180

Neutrality Act,

appropriation for expenses under .................... 79 , 810

Nevada, appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 898

Nevada-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for incidental expenses, In-

dian service in

258, 993

deficiency appropriation for volunteers . 30, 1073

for surveyor-general

1057

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

reopening of claim for expenses raising

troops, etc. , 1861

235

Nevada, Mo.,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1088

New Bedford, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 332

New Brighton, Pa., limit of cost increased , public building ... 315

appropriation for

425

New Brunswick, N. J.,

appropriation for public building

1088

limit of cost increased, public building ... 312

New England Naval Magazine, appropriation for board to select site for.. 1189

New Hampshire, adjustment of claim for raising volunteers . 586

deficiency appropriation for expenses rais-

ing volunteers .

30, 1078

New Hampshire Judicial District,

circuit court terms changed .....

199

New Harbor, Me.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379 New Haven, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

extension

333, 463, 1125

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor channel ...

376

New Jersey,

deficiency appropriation for raising volun-

teers ..

1078

condemned cannon donated for statue of

General William J. Sewell ....

745

New London, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ....

333, 1125

for public works, naval station

672, 1185

New Madrid, Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at

367

New Mexico,

appropriation for salaries, governmentin . 148, 882

for contingent expenses ..

148, 882

for legislative expenses ..

148,882

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc..

163, 898

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

252,993

for support, etc. , of Apache, etc. , In-

dians .

255, 992

for surveying, etc. , boundary Colorado,

Oklahoma, and, continued .

1117

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses ..

10

for resurvey of boundary, Colorado, Ok-

lahoma, and ..

574

proclamation establishing Lincoln Forest

Reserve ..

2018

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

New Orleans and Mississippi Midland Railroad

Company, may bridge Pearl River between Monticello

and Columbia, Miss .....

187

New Orleans, La.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's office;

salaries

144, 878

for salaries, mint at .

146,880

INDEX .

2157

New Orleans, La. -Continued .

Page.

appropriation for mint; wages and contin-

gent expenses

146, 880

for improvement of Mississippi River at 367

for public works, naval station ...... 675, 1187

acquiring site for new post-office, etc.; esti-

mates for building..

322

appropriation for....

429

"New Orleans," United States Navy,

appropriation for new battery .

666

New Panama Canal Company (see also Isthmian Canal ),

purchase of rights, etc. , authorized

481

appropriation for....

481

New River, N. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way from Beaufort ..

352

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

New River, Va . and W. Va. , provision for improvement of, repealed ... 374
New River, W. Va., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

New Whatcom, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 347

New York Agency, N. Y. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at

246, 983

for physician ..

260, 997

New York and New Jersey Railroad Company,

consent given for underground railway ad-

joining appraisers' stores

1232

New York, Chicago and Saint Louis Railroad

Company,

may bridge Calumet River at Hammond,

Ind ....

660

New York Harbor, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of

334

for improvement of Gowanus Creek

Channel

334

Buttermilk Channel

334

Bay Ridge and Red Hook channels,

Gowanus Bay

463

Ambrose Channel, Sandy Hook Bar 463, 1125

for enforcing harbor regulations for inspectors, etc .. for crews, etc ..
for repairing tug . for new tug

435 , 1096 467, 1132
467, 1132 1132 1132

deficiency appropriation for pay of crews,

etc

1045

removal of rock near Pier No. 1 ....

751

New York Indians,

appropriation for clerical expenses, distri-

bution of judgment .

263

New York, N. Y. ,

appropriation for assistanttreasurer's office ;

salaries

144, 878

for salaries, assay office ...

147, 881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147, 881

for public building, custom-house ... 421 , 1088

for post-office, etc. , building ..

422

for appraisers' warehouse, repairs,

etc

422, 1088

for old custom-house, rent.

422, 1088

for marine hospital, site, etc.

423

for Barge Office, alterations, etc.

1088

for enforcing harbor regulations

435, 1096

for ordnance storehouse, navy -yard ........... 666

for public works, navy-yard . for naval hospital, laboratory.
building .

672, 1185 1190 1190

deficiency appropriation for water supply,

navy-yard

567

commission to select site for new post-

office; recommendations for new

building

323

appropriation for expenses

429

New York, N. Y. -Continued. consent to underground railway adjoining Government property ..
limit of cost increased, custom-house .. New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad
Company, payment to, damages to pier New York Southern Judicial District,

Page. 1232 312
239

appropriation for fees, district attorney . 476, 1142

additional judge authorized

805

deficiency appropriation for additional

district judge..

1064

New York World,

deficiency appropriation for advertising .. 569

New Zealand,

parcels-post convention with

1843

Newans, Mrs. N. E. ,

payment to

488

Newark, N. J.,

66 appropriation for public building ......... 421 Newark," United States Navy,

appropriation for new battery .

666

Newberry, John,

deficiency appropriation for paying estate

of

587

Newburyport, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 331

Newcastle-on-Tyne, England,

appropriation for consul at

83, 815

for clerk hire ....

86, 818

Newcastle, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1088 .

Newcomb, Mary C. (widow) , pension increased ..

1256

Newcomb, Samantha A. ( widow),

pension ...

1716

Newman, Colmore L.,

pension increased ..

1534

Newman, David J.,

pension increased..

1517

Newport, Ark., bridge authorized across White River at.. 396

Newport Bridge, Belt and Terminal Railway

Company,

may bridge White River, Ark

396

Newport News, Va.,

appropriation for public building ..... 421 , 1088 limit of cost increased, public building ... 314

Newport, R. I., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 333

for naval torpedo station for wharf for Government service

666, 1180 1138

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor .

382

certain land in , quitclaimed to Lorillard

Spencer .

1419

Newport, Vt. ,

appropriation for public building ..... 421 , 1088

limit of cost increased, public building

315

Newsboys and Children's Aid Society, D. C. ,

appropriation for maintenance.

613, 979

Newspaper Wrappers, Stamped,

appropriation for manufacture ; distribu-

tion ....

... 117, 1174

deficiency appropriation for manufacture

of

1061

Newton, Oliver W. ( son) , pension ..

1709

Nez Perc Indian Reservation, Idaho, appropriation for sawmill

260, 996

time extended for right of way through .. 198

Nez Perc Indians, Joseph's Band, appropriation for support, etc., of...... 256 , 992

2158

INDEX .

Niagara Falls, N. Y.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for .

428, 1088

immediate transportation facilities ex-

tended to

955

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1205

Niagara Falls, Ontario,

appropriation for consul at .

85,817

Niagara River and Tunnel Company, time extended for bridging Niagara River. 73

Niagara River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of..

335

time extended for bridging, at Grand Is-

land , N. Y.

73

Nicaragua,

control of territory for Isthmian canal to

be acquired by treaty from .....

482

use of Nicaragua Canal and harbors guar-

anteed to

483

Nicaragua Canal,

control of territory may be acquired

482

construction authorized

482

capacity; locks ; harbors

482

defense and protection; payment for con-

cessions ..

482

surveys; employees ...

483

use of Lake Nicaragua and San Juan River 483

appropriation for preliminary expenses... 483

Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Salvador, appropriation for minister to .
for secretary of legation . Nice, France,
appropriation for consul at

76, 807 77,808
85, 817

Nicewaner, Tabitha,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 217

Nichol, William ,

pension increased .

1565

Nichols, Charles C.,

deficiency appropriation for father of .... 583

Nichols, Isaac J.,

pension increased .

1735

Nichols, Mary (widow),

pension increased ..

1625

Nichols, Roland C.,

deficiency appropriation for balance due.. 571

Nichuals, Richard P.,

pension increased ..

1356

Nickels, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..........

230

Nickels, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230, 233

Nickerson, Orson,

pension increased .

1680

Nicklin and Griffith,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrators of surviving partner . 218, 222

Night Schools, D. C. ,

appropriation for

604, 968

Niles Ferry, Tenn.,

bridge across Little Tennessee River,

made a lawful structure ..

94

Ninth Light-House District,

appropriation for tender for inspector .... 431

for engineer .

431

for relief vessel for Eleventh and.

1093

Niobrara Forest Reserve, Nebr. , proclamation establishing .
Niuchwang, China, appropriation for consul at

1993 82, 814

Noakes, Milton,

pension increased .

1590

Noble, Eliza J. (widow) ,

Page.

pension increased

1353

Noel, Matthew B.,

pension increased

1519

Nogales, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Noggle, Jonathan,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .............

213

Nolan, Katie A. , deficiency appropriation for balance due.. 576

Non Compos Mentis (see Lunatics, D. C. ) . Norcross, C. A. ,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1067

Nordstrom, Marie W. (widow),

pension increased

1306

Norfolk, Nebr. ,

construction of new public building, au-

thorized

316

appropriation for

426, 1088

Norfolk, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 336

for removing Hospital Point; con-

tracts .

336, 1125

for waterway to Albemarle Sound .... 351

for public works, navy-yard ...

673, 1187

for public works, naval magazine .... 677, 1189

for marine barracks .

689

preliminary examination to be made of

waterway to Beaufort Inlet, N. C... 381

proceedings to condemn lands authorized . 674

limit of cost increased , public building .

315

appropriation for

425

Norris, Cyrus B.,

pension increased

1694

Norris, Elizabeth,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 211

Norris, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220, 220

Norris, Peter T.,

pension increased

1478

Norristown, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1088

North American Transportation and Trading

Company,

deficiency appropriation for payment to .. 572

for relief of Alaskans ...

1048

North Carolina Agricultural Society,

payment to ...

488

"North Carolina," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of....

226

North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts,

relieved from responsibility for destroyed

ordnance

1445

North Carolina Eastern Judicial District,

clerk at Wilmington, authorized ..

106

North Carolina Western Judicial District,

terms of court, Wilkesboro

852

North Dakota,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc.

163, 899

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

258, 993

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

North East River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

352

North River, N. Y. ( see Hudson River, N. Y. ) . North River, Wash.,
appropriation for improvement of........ 370

'INDEX .

2159

Northampton, Mass.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1088

Northern and Northwestern Lakes,

appropriation for survey of .

467, 1131

Northern Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 251 , 987

Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, Mont.,
appropriation for cattle, etc.; expenditure . for paying settlers for improvements; removal..

256 1000

Northern New York Railroad Company,

rights confirmed to bridge across Saint Lawrence River, Hogansport, N. Y. 34

Northern Pacific Railway Company,

deficiency appropriation for freight

12

claim of Charles H. and Eugene Odell,

agents for, referred to Court of

Claims ; payment ..

764

claim referred to Court of. Claims; pay-

ment

764

claim of agents for, referred to Court of

Claims ; payment ...

764

Northville, Mich.,
appropriation for fish hatchery . Northway, Samuel N.,
pension increased ..

1106 1724

Northwest Point Royal Shoal, N. C.,

appropriation for rebuilding light-house

at Bluff Shoal, Pamlico Sound,

N. C ...

70

Northwest Boundary,

appropriation for demarcation of, west of

the Rockies ...

1138

Norton, Cyrus G. ,

pension increased ..

1570

Norton, Leonard A., pension increased.

1660

Norton, Milton C. ,

pension increased ..

1735

Norton, Oliver D.,

may accept testimonial from German Em-

peror .

1262

Norton, Stephen A. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ......

215

Norton, William H.,

pension increased ..

1385

Norwalk, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

for light-house, etc. , Pecks Ledge ...... 1092

Norway, Sweden and,

appropriation for minister to .

76, 807

for secretary of legation

77,808

Notaries Public, D. C.,

certificate of authority not required on affi-

davits proving debts

529

powers of .

533

Nottingham, England, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire...

82, 814 86, 818

Nouman, John G. ,

pension increased ..

1620

Noyes, Eliphlet,

pension increased ...

1430

Noyes, L. A. ,

payment to

1608

Noyes, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1683

Nudd, Warren B.,

pension increased ..

1384

Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

83, 815

Nunez, Joseph A., pension increased .

Page. 1307

Nuremberg, Germany, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..
Nutrition Investigations,

82, 814 86, 818

appropriation for expenses, Department of

Agriculture

302, 1164

Nutt, Haller,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

212

Nuttle, David T.,

pension increased .

1543

Nymeyer, Bart A. ,

deficiency appropriation for

573

0.

Oacoma, S. Dak. , bridge authorized across Missouri River at . 762

time extended for bridge over Missouri

River at.

305

Oak Orchard, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334
Oak Park, Il. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for .

428, 1088

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1206

Oakland, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

346, 1126

for light-house and fog-signal .

431

Oakley, Ebenezer W., pension increased .

1500

Oakley, James S., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Oaths,

officers in foreign countries authorized to

take, in patent applications ...........

1226

rural free-delivery agents, etc. , may admin-

ister certain

113

to be taken by Philippine insurrectionists seeking amnesty .............
Obion River, Tenn., appropriation for improvement of preliminary examination of, to be made..
O'Brien, George A. S., deficiency appropriation for payment to ..
O' Brien, John, military record corrected ...........
Ocala, Fla., deficiency appropriation for public building site purchase of public building site authorized .
Occoquan Creek, Va., appropriation for improvement of.....................

2015 358 382
1057 1488
1039 1208 351

Ocean and Lake Surveys, appropriation for naval.

668, 1182

deficiency appropriation for

1050, 1073

Oceanic Steamship Company,

appropriation for transporting mails to

Tahiti ; rate

116, 1173

Ocklawaha River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of ....... 353

Ocmulgee River, Ga., appropriation for improvement of....... 463

Oconee River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of..

353

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

O'Connell, Charles,

payment to

487

Oconto, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345

2160

INDEX .

Ocracoke Island, N. C., life-saving station established .

Page. 101

Odell, Charles H. , and Eugene,

claim of, as agents, referred to Court of

Claims; payment ...

764

Odell, Cyrus,

pension increased ....................

1250

Odessa, Russia, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire ....
deficiency appropriation for consul O'Donnell, Patrick W.,
pension Offenses (see Crimes and Offenses ) .

83, 814 86, 818
553
1682

Offenses, D. C.,

punishment for injuries, etc. , to electrical

appliances

534

for failure to deliver will, etc.

535

for recording false deeds

535

Office Brokers, D. C., penalty forgivingor receiving offices forpay 591

Officers, Army,

appropriation for pay of line; longevity . 508 , 929

for pay of staff; longevity

509, 931

for pay of retired ; longevity ..

511 , 932

detail for organized militia ; pay, etc.. 932

further increase of longevity, limited. 932

for commutation of quarters . for mileage....

511, 933 512, 933

for 10 per cent increase .

512 , 933

deficiency appropriation for mileage 563, 585

detail of, authorized for militia encamp-

ments

778

leave credits for volunteer service .

508

longevity pay of retired , not to be increased 511

unless retired for wounds

511

may be detailed for duty with organized

militia ....

779

pay increased 10 per cent for service be-

yond the States

512

staff detail not to extend active service or

pay .

509

Officers, Marine Corps, appropriation for pay

686, 1199

Officers, Navy, appropriation for pay

662, 1177

allowance for travel when repeatedly per-

formed

663

increase in grades below commander .... 1197

rank, etc. , not affected by law increasing

number ...

1198

Offices, D. C.,

terms of, not affected by Code, unless spe-

cially mentioned

546

 Official Gazette, Patent Office, appropriation for producing .

160, 895

deficiency appropriation for producing . 20, 1054

Official Postal Guide, appropriation for publication .... ... 167, 902

Official Records of the Rebellion,

appropriation for distribution by Fifty-

seventh Congress ; plates to be de-

stroyed ...

1145

Official Register of the United States, 1903,

appropriation for preparing

897

Official Reporters,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives ..

125, 861

for, Senate .

124, 857

for reimbursement, etc. , House of Rep-

resentatives

582, 1068

Senate ...

580, 1067

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay .

583, 1066

Ogaard, Louis A., deficiency appropriation for services ............. 573

Ogden, Elizabeth I. (mother), pension

Page. 1419

Ogden, Katherine R. A. (widow),

pension

1255

Ogden, Utah,

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site

316

appropriation for terms of district court at

426, 1088 841

Ogdensburg, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Oglesby, W. M.,

payment to..

488

Ohio,

deficiency appropriation for refunding ex-

penses, raising volunteers

586

jurisdiction over location of Soldiers'

Home, Dayton, ceded back to ..... 732

Ohio River,

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

for improvement of..

359

for ice pier, Maysville, Ky

359

at Falls of the Ohio ...

359

for removing deposits at ice piers

359

for levee, Shawneetown, Ill .

359

for rebuilding ice piers, Middleport

and Gallipolis ...

359

for ice pier mouth of Big Hocking

River ..

359

for locks and dams 2, 3, 4, 5 , and 6;

contracts ..

359, 1127

for lock and dam 7 ..

359

lock at dam 8

1127

lock at dam 11

1127

lock and dam 37 ; contracts . 359, 1127

for movable dam 8; contracts ..

* 360

for movable dam 11 ; contracts ..

360

for movable dam 19 .....

360

below Pittsburg, Pa. , dams 13 and

18 ....

... 463, 1125

deficiency appropriation for improvement

of lower; emergency ..

563

preliminary examination of, to be made of,

Elizabethtown, Ill ...

377

Mound City, Ill

377

Mound City to Cairo ....

377

below Green River..

377

head of Falls, Louisville .

378

of Sand Island for moorings, etc.

378

Ogden Landing, Ky ...

378

bridge authorized across, Allegheny, Pa .. 178

report on necessary changes to bridges ... 360

Ohio Volunteer Light Artillery,

military service of First Regiment, recog-

nized ..

757

Oil and Gas Fields of Texas,

additional copies of bulletin on , ordered

printed

1764

Oil City, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for..

428, 1088

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1205

Oil Mining Claims,

assessment permitted on one of a group

under same ownership ..

825

Okanogan River, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of........ 371
Oklahoma,

appropriation for salaries, government in . 148,

882

for contingent expenses

148, 882

for legislative expenses

148,882

contract forschool at Edmond allowed . 882

for surveying, etc. , boundary, Colorado, New Mexico, and , continued ...... 1117

INDEX .

2161

Oklahoma- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses ...

10

for legislative expenses .

1042

for resurvey of boundary, Colorado, New

Mexico, and ....

574

additional allowance for public works,

town-lots sales, Wichita, etc. , ces-

sion

506

additional copies of report of governor for 1901, ordered printed .
bond issue for school buildings permitted ; limitations ..
commutation of homestead for town-sites entries on lands ceded by Wichita, etc. , Indians
by Comanches, Kiowas, and Apaches .. general provisions for right of way, through
Indian reservations in .. proclamation restoring lands of Fort Sill

888

1767 392
63 50

Indian subagency to public domain . of Iowa and Comanche Agency to public
domain, for Anadarko park purposes . opening to entry lands in, ceded by Wichitas, Comanches, etc.. establishing Wichita Forest Reserve public-building contracts prohibited . public-land receipts in, to be used for irrigation reapportionment of districts ordered
two additional justices to be appointed .. seven judicial districts established
seat of government not to be changed . right of way through, granted Enid and
Anardarko Railway Company ..

2026
2007
1975 1973
148
388 148 184 185 148
43

Oklahoma City and Western Railroad Com-

pany,

granted right of way, Fort Sill Military

Reservation, Okla ....

821

Oklahoma City, Okla.,

construction of public building, authorized

at

316

appropriation for

426, 1088

site at nominal cost authorized for public

building

1212

Olcott, Benjamin F. ,

pension increased .

1728

Olcott, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor ..

380

Oldden, James,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

218, 223

Oldden, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ...

223

O'Leary, M. J.,

payment to

487

Oleomargarine,

appropriation for expenses inspection of. 142, 877

subject to State, etc. , laws ....

193

Oleomargarine Act,

interstate imitation dairy products made

subject to State, etc. , laws ..

193

original packages not exempt ...

194

special taxes; manufacturers further de-

fined

194

on dealers selling only uncolored arti-

cle, reduced ..

194

tax on manufactured article .

194

not artificially colored

194

stamps to be used

194

Oleomargarine Act-Continued . definition of butter
adulterated butter . process or renovated butter ..

Page. 194 194 195

special taxes on manufacturers of renova-

ted butter ...

195

of adulterated butter..

195

on wholesale dealers in adulterated but-

ter

195

on retail dealers .

195

laws applicable ..

195

penalties for not paying taxes .

195

regulations, adulterated and renovated

butter; bond ..

195

packages and sales of adulterated butter;

penalties ....

195

labels for adulterated butter; penalties .. 196

tax on manufactured adulterated butter .. 196

renovated butter ...

196

exportation and importation rules applied

to adulterated butter..

196

inspection, etc. , of renovated butter ..

196

marks, labels, etc. , renovated butter .

197

regulations, renovated butter; penalties . 197

returns, etc. , of wholesale dealers ; inspec-

tion

197

to take effect July 1 , 1902

197

" Olinda," Steamer,

refunded additional tonnage taxes ...... 771

"Olive Branch," Brigantine,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of

220

"Olive," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

224

Oliver, Francis M. ,

granted honorable discharge.....

1698

Oliver, Henry W. , jr. ,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

of agent for, referred to Court of Claims ; payment ..
Olmstead, James M., military record corrected ...
Olmstead, Jonas, pension increased ..

764 1489 1574

Olney, Frank A. ,

pension increased ..

1668

Olson, Charles,

pension increased .......

1482

Olympia, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 347

Olympic Forest Reserve, Wash., proclamation changing boundaries ..
Omaha and Winnebago Agency, Nebr. , appropriation for Indian agent at for bridges, etc.
Omaha and Winnebago Indian Reservation, Nebr. ,
time extended for right of way through ..

1971 246 265
183

Omaha Bridge and Terminal Railway Com-

pany,

may bridge Missouri River

204

Omaha Indians,

payment per capita for Nebraska lands ... 267

Omaha, Nebr.,

appropriation for warehouse for Indian

service stores ..

... 263, 999

requirement for free building, etc. , re-

pealed ....

263

for quartermaster's warehouse .

730

bridge authorized across Missouri River,

Council Bluffs, Iowa, to ..

204

limit of cost increased, public building . 315, 1205

appropriation for.

425, 1088

VOL XXXII, PT 2--59

2162

INDEX .

Omaha Northern Railway Company,

Page.

time extended for right of way, Omaha and Winnebago Reservation, Nebr .. 183
Omnibus Claims Act,

appropriation for claims under Bowman

and Tucker acts

207

for French spoliation claims .

217

assignments or insurance companies

not to be paid ...

233

for damages, etc. , churches and schools . 234

payment of State claims ..

235

miscellaneous claims ..

236

investigation and settlement of certain

claims

240

claims referred to admiralty court ..

242

to Court of Claims ..

243

light-draft ironclads

244

general limitations; bond from adminis-

trators .

244

next of kin instead of assignees in bank-

ruptcy ...

245

French spoliation claims excepted

245

payments to successors of executors, etc .. 245

Omnibus Public Buildings Acts (see Public

Buildings, Omnibus Acts) .

Onab Ogamaybeck,

allotment of lands to, Red Lake Reserva-

tion

261

O'Neal, Matilda,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

215

O'Neal, Weden, pension increased ..
Oneida Indian School, Wis., appropriation for additional land ........
O'Neil, James, pension increased .

1608 265 1665

O'Neil, William,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

215

Onset Harbor, Mass., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Ontonagon, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor...

379

Oostenaula River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of..

353

Opinions of Assistant Attorney- General, Post-

Office Department, appropriation for printing and binding ... 1166

Opinions of the Attorney- General,

appropriation for preparing twenty-fourth

volume

1139

Opium,

sale of, in uncivilized Pacific islands for-

bidden; punishment ....

33

Orange River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 353

"Orange," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of....

221

Orange, Tex.,

cooperation with, for deeper channel to

Sabine Pass

356

preliminary examination to be made of

ship channel to Sabine Pass .

383

Ordnance Department, Army, appropriation for pay of enlisted men .. for pay of officers; longevity for current expenses . for metallic ammunition, etc
annual medals, prizes, etc. for equipping organized militia for repairing ordnance, etc for purchase, etc. , of ordnance stores .

508,930 510, 931 519, 941 519, 941
941 942 520, 942
520, 942

Ordnance Department, Army- Continued. appropriation for equipments for overhauling, etc., stores .

Page. 520, 942 520, 942

for firing morning and evening gun .. 520, 942

for artillery targets, etc ....

520, 942

for manufacture of arms at armories .. 520,942

freight not to be paid ...

520

deficiency appropriation for ordnance,

etc

13, 589, 1073

for ammunition furnished marines in

China

568

for Rock Island, replacing stores de-

stroyed by fire

1046

rebuilding storehouse .

1046

details for service as first lieutenants; ex-

amination ....

942

ordnance storekeeper, when retired, to be

lieutenant- colonel

511

purchases permitted in open market; limit. 520

returns to be made semiannually

885

Ordnance, Navy,

appropriation for .

.... 665, 1179

deficiency appropriation for procuring, etc. 16

Ordnance Office, War Department,
appropriation for clerks, etc.... for rent

150,885 151,885

Oregon,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 899

for support, etc. , of Indians in middle . 255, 991

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

258,994

deficiency appropriation for pay, etc. , vol-

unteers ..

30, 586, 589, 1073, 1076

for surveyor-general

1056

lands added to Cascade Range Forest Re-

serve

1972

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

Oregon and Washington Indian Wars,

pensions to survivors, etc. , of..........

399

Orient Point, N. Y.,

appropriation for light-house, breakwater . 430

Original Packages,

of imitation dairy products, not exempt

from State, etc. , laws

194

Orillia, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Ornelas, J. N., and others,

deficiency appropriation for refunding, for

cattle improperly seized ..

1036

O'Rourke, John,

pension increased ..

1373

Orr, Adelbert L.

pension

1426

Orr, George A. ,

payment to .

241

Orr, W. W. S.,

payment to estate of .

490

Orwan, Fanny B. (widow ),

pension increased..

1696

Osage Agency, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246,983

Osage Indian Lands, Kans.,

claims of land officers for commissions re-

ferred to Court of Claims ...

1010

Osage Indian Reservation, Okla., right-of- way provisions applicable to ..... 50

Osage Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 251 , 987

Osage River, Mo. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

368

declared not navigable above Benton

County

398

Osborn, Margaret A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1582

INDEX .

2163

Osborn, Orlando S., pension increased .

Page. 1667

Osborne, Ruth B. (widow) ,
pension .. Osbourn, Martha R. (widow),
pension . Oskaloosa, Iowa,
appropriation for public building ........ limit of cost increased, public building
appropriation for

1289
1305
422 315 425

Osterhaus, Peter J.,

pension increased ..

1462

Oswego, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

preliminary examination of, to be made;

breakwater..

380

Oswold, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

212

Otey, Hon. P. J., late a Representative in Con-

gress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

581

Otis, David,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230

Otoe and Missouria Indians,

appropriation for paying, for Nebraska

lands ...

265

for erecting school for Otoes in Okla-

homa .

1006

Ott, Barney,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of.......

217

Ottawa, Canada, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire .................
Ottawa, Ill.,

81 , 813 86, 818

construction of public building author-

ized at...

317

appropriation for

428, 1088

Otter Tail Lake and River, Minn. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

"Otto Gildemeister," Bark, granted American register, and name
changed to " Homeward Bound " .. 198

Ottumwa, Iowa,

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land .

311

appropriation for .

425

Ouachita River, Ark.,

bridge authorized across

89

Ouachita River, Ark. and La . ,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams; contracts

357, 1127

Oulman, Eugene J. ,

pension increased ..

1326

Outage Allowance, Internal Revenue, extended to all spirits in bond ..
Overman, William J., pension increased ..
Oven, James C., payment of Court of Claims judgment to executor of.....

770 1320 214

Owen, Thomas J. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

212

Owens, Thomas M.,

pension increased ..

1533

Owensboro, Ky.,

terms of court

58

Owosso, Mich.,

construction of public building authorized ;

nominal site ..

317

appropriation for

426, 1088

limit of cost increased, public building,

to include site ..

1212

Oyster Bayou, La., light-house established at mouth of... appropriation for .
Oyster Harbor, Va., preliminary examination of, to be made..
Ozark and Cherokee Central Railway Company, may bridge Arkansas River near Fort Gib-
son, Ind. T .....

Page. 75
431 383
37

P.

Pace, James W.,

pension increased ...

1708

Pacific Islands,

traffic in arms, etc. , by citizens forbidden

in; punishment

33

Pacific Ocean,

appropriation for survey of Hawaiian,

Alaskan, etc., coasts

436, 1098

provisions for canal to the Atlantic

481

Packard, Abbie M. (daughter) ,

pension

1297

Packard, Helen N. (widow ) ,

pension increased .

1593

Padre Island, Tex., completion of harbor authorized ......... 341

Paducah, Ky.,

limit of cost increased, public building ... 311

appropriation for

425, 1088

Pagan River, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 351

Pages,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives ..

.. 126, 860

for, Senate

122, 856

deficiency appropriation for, Senate ....
Painter, William W. , pension
Palermo, Italy, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire...

580 , 1067 1647
83, 816 86, 818

Palmatory, John T. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of

217

Palmer, Charles D.,

pension increased ..

1418

Palmer, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

1643

Palmer, Helen,

payment to..

1453

Palmer, Henry E.,

appointed a manager, National Home for

Disabled Volunteer Soldiers ...

738

Palmer, Regina F. (widow) , pension increased ..
Pamlico River, N. C., appropriation for improvement of........
Pamlico Sound, N. C. , appropriation for light-house, Bluff Shoal .
Pan-American Exposition, foreign exhibits may be sent in bond to Charleston Exposition ...

1594 351
70
734

Pan-American Railway,

appropriation for expenses, etc. , examina-

tion of proposed .

1138

Panama Canal (see also Isthmian Canal ) ,

purchase, etc. , of, authorized ....

481

construction authorized

482

appropriation for

482

capacity; locks; harbors

482

defense and protection; employees .

482

Panama, Colombia, appropriation for consul-general at . for clerk hire ..

81 , 813 86, 818

for contribution to foreign hospital .... 87, 819

Panama Railroad,

purchase of, authorized

481

2164

INDEX.

Pangle, Isaac M., pension ..

Page. 1479

Paper and Stamps, Internal Revenue, appropriation for .
deficiency appropriation for .. Paper for Checks, etc.,
appropriation for

447, 1108 8, 1040
145, 879

Para, Brazil, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire...........

82, 814 86, 818

Paraguay and Uruguay, appropriation for minister to
Parcels-Post Convention, with Bolivia with New Zealand .

76, 807
1948 1843

Parcher, Othniel P.,

pension increased .

1688

Pardee, Susan M. (widow), pension increased

1257

Pardon, granted Philippine insurrectionists exceptions; special application
Pardons, Digest of Laws, etc., compilation of, ordered printed ...... appropriation for preparation
Parfitt, Thomas, pension increased..........
Paris Exposition,

2014 2014
1231 1232
1619

deficiency appropriation for outstanding

accounts ; use of balances ..

555

for expenses; use of proceeds from sales . 555

Paris, France, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ...........

81 , 813 86, 818

Paris, Tex.,

terms of court ..

69

Paris Tribunal, 1893,

appropriation for new examination of seal

life, etc. , under award of....

1138

Parish, Joseph W.,

claim of, to be examined, and balance paid . 1612

Park, Abraham,

pension increased ..

1565

Park, Ada V. (widow) , pension .
Parker, Bradstreet, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1390 227

Parker, Charles W. ,

deficiency appropriation for .....

570

Parker, George W.,

pension increased ..

1374

Parker, Mary J. (widow),

pension ..

1664

Parker, Susan (widow),

pension increased .

1554

Parker, William B.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ...

227

Parking Commission, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses

600, 965

Parks, Mahala J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .............

212

Parks, Military (see National Parks ) .

Parks, National ( see National Parks ) .
Parkville, Mo. , bridge authorized across Missouri River at . 102

Parmelee, Leander, pension increased .

1330

Parrott, Benjamin F.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to. 213

Parry, Martin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223, 233

Parthemore, D. H.,

Page.

payment to .....

489

Parties,

who may be included in interstate-com-

merce proceedings .........

848

Partition, D. C.,

accounting to cotenants

523

Partnership, D. C.,

provision for attachment of undivided, in-

terest repealed ..

530

Partridge, Almond,

pension increased .

1561

Partridge, Simeon,

pension

1308

Pascagoula River, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of........... 355 , 1127

for improvement of channel to Missis-

sippi Sound; contracts

355

Passaic River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

349, 1126

Passports,

issue and verification by officers in insular

possessions ...

386

issued to persons owing allegiance, whether

citizens or not .

386

penalty for issuing, etc. , false ..

386

Paston, Benjamin F., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Patapsco River, Md. ,

completion of light-house, etc. , authorized ;

cost increased

329,559

preliminary examination of, to be made ;

channel to Bear Creek

379

channel to Sparrows Point

379

Pate and Company, W. T.,

payment to surviving partner, refund of

taxes

242

Patent Office,

appropriation for Commissioner , assistant,

examiners, etc

160, 894

for professional and scientific books .. 160, 895

for equipping library

160

for law books

160, 895

for Official Gazette

160, 895

for weekly issue of patents; drawings,

etc

160, 895

for investigations, etc

160, 895

for expenses, International Bureau 161,895

for rent, model exhibit

162,897

deficiency appropriation for Official Ga-

zette ...

20, 1054

for weekly issue of patents, etc.

20, 1054

Patents (see also Industrial Property) ,

act carrying into effect international agree-

ments as to...

1225

application for, to be taken within twelve

months of foreign application ...... 1226

for designs within four months

1226

reciprocal privileges to countries according the same to United States citizens .. 1226

restriction if patented, etc. , two years

prior to filing ..

1226

provisions for making oath to application

abroad ..

1226

rights of administrator or executor of in-

ventor, dying abroad, to obtain pat-

ent

1227

restriction to filing caveats by citizens

only, removed...

1227

may issue for any new design for article of

manufacture

193

specifications and drawings to be deposited

in Carnegie Library, Pittsburg, Pa . 746

to be signed by Commissioner ..

95

INDEX .

2165

Patents, Commissioner of,

Page.

appropriation for, assistant, examiners . 160 , 894

to sign patents

95

Patents, D. C.,

provisions for attaching, repealed ....

541

proceedings for levying on , repealed

541

Patras, Greece,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Patten, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Patten, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Patterson, Austin H.,

pension increased ..

1681

Patterson, George,

pension increased .

1260

Patton, James F. ,

pension increased .

1420

Patuxent River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of................

336

Paty, William T. , deficiency appropriation for services .... 577

Paui, George H.,

appointment as warrant machinist, Navy,

authorized .

1490

Paul, Katharine Rains (widow),

pension increased ..

1449

Paulsen, Halvor,

pension

1690

Paupers, etc., Alien,

appropriation for preventing immigration

of

450, 1112

admission of, excluded ..

1214

Parements, D. C. , appropriation for

598, 964

Pawcatuck River, R. I. and Conn. , appropriation for improvement of........ 349

Pauling, Emma R. ( widow),

pension ..

1303

Pawnbrokers, D. C. ,

license tax on, continued ....

628

Pawnee Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 251 , 987

Pawtucket River, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 349

Pay, Army,

appropriation for .

508,929

for 20 per cent enlisted men ..

512, 933

for 10 per cent officers at foreign sta-

tions

512, 933

for arrears, war with Spain, etc ..

1138

deficiency appropriation for

29,

563, 585, 1072 , 1076

computation of salaries

934

increase for service beyond the States .... 512

Pay Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers ; longev-

ity .

510, 932

Pay, Marine Corps,

appropriation for, officers, active list .. 686, 1199

retired list

687, 1199

for enlisted men .

687, 1199

deficiency appropriation for ... 30, 586 , 589, 1073

Pay, Navy,

appropriation for additional men authorized

662, 1177 1177

for miscellaneous for contingent .

662, 1177 663, 1177

balance available for bringing home

remains from abroad ..

663

deficiency appropriation for .

30,

565, 586, 589, 1050, 1073 , 1076

for miscellaneous .

15, 30, 586, 1050, 1073

for contingent ...

566, 1050

Paymaster-General's Office, War Department, Page.

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

150, 885

for rent .

151

Paymasters' Clerks and Messengers, Army,

appropriation for pay; traveling ex-

penses .. sea travel allowance

511 , 933 511

Payne, Marie Eliza, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Payne, Alida (daughter) ,

pension .

1323

Payne, Samuel H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of

208

Payson Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing .

1985

Peabody, Gustavus W.,

pension increased ..

1641

Peabody, Thomas E.,

pension increased .

1634

Peacha, James, appropriation for
Peacha, Mrs. James, appropriation for
Peake, Charles E.,  pension .
Peale, Franklin, pension increased .

269 269 1559 1733

Pearce, Kate (widow) ,

pension

1296

Pearl and Leaf Rivers Railroad Company,

may bridge Pearl River, Smiths Ferry,

Miss ..

924

Pearl River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of, between

Edinburg and Jackson ..

355

below Rockport

355

bridge authorized across, between Monti-

cello and Columbia ...

187

Smiths Ferry.

924

Pearson, Francis, alias James F. Pearston,

pension increaesd ....

1274

Pearson, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Peck, Jesse M., pension increased ..
Peck, Oscar M., pension increased .
Peddlers, D. C., license tax on .

1482 1717 627

Peddycoard, Levi H., pension increased
Pedrick, William E.. fee simple patent to ..
Peekskill, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor .
Peel, S. W.,

1571 1008 334

appropriation for payment as attorney for

Creek Indians ..

995

Peffer, William A. ,

deficiency appropriation, for index of

debates in Congress ...

580

Pekin, China,

appropriation for erection of legation build-

ings

78

Pekin, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for .

428, 1088

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1204

Pend Oreille River, Wash., appropriation for improvement of ........ 371

Pendland, Alonzo, pension .

1715

2166

INDEX .

Pendleton, Kenneth R.,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 213

Penitentiaries, U. S.,

appropriation for Fort Leavenworth ,

Kans

473, 476, 1142

for Atlanta, Ga

473, 478, 1143

for McNeils Island, Wash

579, 1144

Penn, Thomas H.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

209

Pennel, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

1658

Pennsylvania, adjustment of claim for raising volunteers . 586

claim to be settled by Auditor for War De-

partment ...

583

deficiency appropriation for expenses rais-

ing volunteers .

30

Pennsylvania Eastern Judicial District,

terms of district court ..

549

Pennsylvania Middle Judicial District,

terms changed ...

549

records to be kept at Scranton .

549

Pennsylvania Western Judicial District,

patent specifications and drawings, to be

removed to Carnegie Library, Pitts-

burg .

746

Penny and Sons, claim to be reheard in Court of Claims ... 1492

Penrose, Clara A. (widow),

pension increased ....

1302

Pensacola, Alabama and Tennessee Railway

Company,

may bridge Alabama River, Ala

772

Pensacola, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

dredge .

339

for building, etc. , quarantine station . 424, 1091

for ordnance tools, navy-yard...

666

for public works, navy-yard ..

675, 1187

Pensaukee Harbor, Wis. ,

provision for improvement of, repealed ... 374

Pensinger, Henry,

pension increased ..

1705

Pension Agents,

appropriation for salaries, etc

..... 62 , 761

Pension Appeals, Board of appropriation for members
Pension Attorneys,

156, 891

fee for securing special pension acts for-

bidden; penalty

62, 761

Pension Decisions,

printing ordered of volumes 10 and 11 .... 1767 Pension Office,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc ....

159, 894

for per diem, special examiners

159, 894

for additional special examiners .... 159, 894 deficiency appropriation for improvements 19

Pensioners,

appropriation for investigating claims for

expenses, deceased

449

restriction on payment of funeral expenses

of deceased ....

1111

Pensions,

appropriation for payment of Army and

Navy

62, 761

Navy, from naval fund .

62, 761

separate accounts required for fees, etc., examining surgeons ;
aminations ..
rating and condition in reports inspection of special examiners'
ports

62, 761
ex62, 761 62, 761
re62, 761

attorney forbidden fees for special acts;

penalty

62, 761

Pensions-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for agents ' salaries for clerk hire; apportionment for rents
for stationery, etc ...

62, 761 62, 761 62,762 62, 762

deficiency appropriation for examining

surgeons .

23, 1059, 1074

for Army

31 , 587, 590, 1074, 1077

for Navy..

31, 1074

for investigating, cases.

589

for Harlow Underhill .

1060

allowed for disabilities in militia service .. 779

widows and children of militiamen

779

disability act construed as to service and

discharge

750

exception as to prior Confederate service 750

effect of final discharge on military rec-

ord ..

750

conditions..

750

granted to survivors, etc. , of additional In-

dian wars

399

proof of enlistment and service

399

contracts with attorneys declared void .. 400

increase of, for loss of limbs ...

944

Mexican war survivors, increased ..

1228

remarried widows of others than officers

or enlisted men, entitled to .....

920

failing to draw, by reason of remarriage,

may receive ..

921

total deafness, rating increased

773

granted-

Abercrombie, Frances J

1385

Ackley, Francis L

1454

Adams, Eleanore F

1455

Adams, Mary J ...

1474

Ady, Andrew

1576

Allen, Caroline N.

1246

Allport, Amos .

1420

Anderson, John B..

1629

Anderson, Rodney W

1700

Andrews, Forrest E

1454

Andrews, Sara B

1294

Angel, Alice

1314

Applegate, Aaron M

1275

Armstrong, Matilda.

1246

Arnold, Addison ...

1669

Bailey, Ella ..

1300

Bailey, Mary A.

1455

Baker, Margaret..

1354

Barnes, Marion .

1343

Barrett, Emily S.

1245

Bates, James E.

1506

Bates, Sarah L.

1590

Bartlett, Archer .

1454

Bartlett, Nellie .

1263

Bartlett, Ruth .

1345

Bayliss, Amanda C

1380

Bayly, Mary R ..

1720

Beachboard, Alexander.

1295

Beaver, Samuel S ..

1388

Beckett, Elizabeth L.

1372

Bell, Margaret ....

1728

Bickerstaff, Mary C.

1487

Bigelow, Charles P

1644

Bishop, Martha J..

1704

Blitz, Charles

1439

Blount, Augustus .

1602

Bourke, Abbie

1512

Bowden, William F.

1484

Bowers, Sarah

1279

Bozeman, Alice

1320

Bracken, Charles W.

1649

Branham, Edward A

1553

Brennan, Margaret

1648

Brewster, Elias ..

1562

Briggs, Emily .

1445

Pensions- Continued. grantedBriggs, Ida M Broggan, Frances C. Bronson, Anne Brown, Cora E. Brownlow, Eliza A Bruff, John W Brummett, Wesley Brush, Anna O. Bryan, Edward .. Buckingham , Joshua H Buckley, Peter . Bullard, Rachel E Bunn, May E Burford, Preston W Buri, Theodore .. Burke, Erwin A Burrill, Elizabeth A Burton, Melissa Buse, Johanna Bushnell, Arthur J Butler, Thomas . Cable, Sidney Campbell, Ellen D. Campbell, Lizzie A
Carlile, Mary A Carr, Lydia Carter, Sarah A Caton, Jane . Cavender, Lucinda W. Chalfant, James A. Chamberlin, Samuel H Chambers, Rebecca L .. Chandler, Adella C Chapman, Mary E. Chase, Hannah C. Choate, George W Clark, Huldah A
Clark, Susan E Clark, Thomas E Clarke, John C. Clarke, Matilda C Clifton, James A. Closser, Charlotte J. Cluxton, Jessie V Compton, Isabella . Conlon, Michael . Conroy, Catherine . Conter, John .......... Coolen, John .. Cook, Lavinia . Coppinger, Rebecca. Corbett, John .. Corbett, Shadrack I Core, John M Corey, John Y Cornish, Martha A Cosens, Dollie ..
Couch, Mary C. Cowie, Frances . Crandall, Susan P Cronk, Silas H. Crummett, Rose O.
Culver, Mary E Daniels, Christina
Davis, Mary E De Lamater, Martha A. Devine, Michael .. Devitt, Thomas H
Dibert, Mary L.. Dickey, James E. Dixon, William Dobbins, Rebecca Doss, Annie E.. Dougherty, Daniel .

INDEX .

Page.
1372 1651 1512 1589 1406 1569 1457 1758 1723 1276 1645 1682 1631 1567 1729 1405 1417 1442 1704 1442 1282 1377 1714 1271 1344 1371 1331 1378 1242 1495 1434 1594 1279 1293 1316 1640 1506 1349 1264 1515 1440 1507 1674 1718 1288 1650 1270 1453 1390 1697 1389 1640 1371 1267 1314 1472 1577 1695 1649 1283 1270 1658 1457 1290 1237 1319 1642 1480 1363 1472 1582 1264 1649 1566

Pensions- Continued .
grantedDougherty, John R .. Draper, Benjamin F Duckworth, Calvin Duffy, Blanche ... Duling, Fletcher.. Dunlap, Lizzie Durham, William H. Dustin, Josephine M. Dyer, Dennis .. Edwards, Deborah Edwards, Luther G. Ellis, Matthew V. Emery, Nellie M Engel, Amelia Essex, Martin . Evans, Hellen M
Everton, Mary P Everts, Mary A Farnham, Carrie B
Farnsworth, Hester A Farrell, John E Featherstone, William P. Felt, Andrew J ... Ferguson, Marcia B. Ferguson, Ruth H. Ferrier, Emma L. Fields, Sarah O ..
Fifield, Lillie May. Filson, Washington T. Findley, Jacob Fitch, Mary J Fitzsimmons, Caroline . Flowers, William C... Fogle, Deborah J.. Folds, Elizabeth M. Foster, Thomas G
Fox, Margaret ... Freeman, Catharine Frost, Fannie Furr, Hester A. Gallagher, Eliza Gamble, Eliza B. Gates, Elizabeth C Geyer, Rebecca H .. Gibbs, Henry R.. Gilbert, Ann.. Gilman, Mary E. F. Glass, Rebecca A Glover, M. Callie . Golden, Jacob
Goodrich, Mary J Goodwin, Theophilus . Goslin, Emma  Gottweis, Henrietta . Graham, Hannah H Graves, Philander H. Gray, William E Greeley, Martin .. Green, Ann M .. Greene, Ida D.. Grubaugh, George R. Gunsally, Nancy M Hale, Jane . Hall, David E Hall, Thomas Hardee, Esther A. C. Harding, Elizabeth D. Hardy, Nancy E Harris, James B. Harris, Sarah Anne . Harrison, Carter B Harvey, Erma G Hashbargar, James B. Hatfield, Alfred

2167
Page.
1700 1291 1508 1358 1630 1501 1566 1336 1335 1670 1488 1400 1248 1428 1408 1253 1648 1657 1474 1466 1247 1376 1350 1688 1390 1520 1272 1547 1645 1498 1398 1582 1289 1707 1287 1304 1644 1512 1467 1411 1664 1324 1646 1528 1563 1650 1360 1679 1284 1340 1703 1245 1670 1469 1414 1757 1359 1646 1678 1356 1705 1513 1644 1509 1275 1355 1514 1412 1311 1348 1608 1394 1377 1470

2168
Pensions -Continued . grantedHawks, Clara C .... Haynes, John
Hays, Mary E. S Heitz, Christina . Helmbold, Maggie... Hench, Martha Elizabeth . Hickox, William C Hill, Irenia C. Hill, S. Josie . Hilton, Charles S. F Hinkle, Mary A. Hogan, Anna May Holbrook, Mary E. Holden, Mary E.. Hollingsead, Martha A Holloway, Thomas Holmes, Mary. Horan, Jeremiah . House, Mary A... House, Susan ... Howe, Charlotte M Howe, Gilbert P.. Hummel, Annie S. Huston, Mary Shelton Irish, Isabella H
Ivey, Mary J.. Jacko, Amanda Jackson, James T. Jacobs, Elizabeth. James, John S .. Johnson, Ellen .. Johnson, Nelson .. Johnston, James F. P. Johnston, William Jordan, Julia A.. Kaempfer, Ada S. Kaste, William.. Kelly, Dennis J Kendrick, Martha E Kennedy, Susan.. Kenny, William.. Kent, Susan.. Killough, Nancy A. King, Cappa King, Mary Kingsbury, Lemuel Kinney, Ida M... Kirkham, John A Knowles, Hannah T. Krause, Alice D. H. Kuhn, Mahala Jane Lalley, Sabina .. Lamb, Mary A. Lasher, Helen F. Lawrence, Lucinda Lazear, Mabel H Ledyard , Bessie Lee, Julia .. Lee, Rufus V. Lester, Abner H. Letts, Dewitt Clinton Levenseler, Laura Lewis, John S.. Lightfoot, Sarah D. Lipps, Mary A Liston, George A Logan, Bridget . Lowden, Elizabeth Lowe, Sarah H. H. Lowry, Mary Louise Lundy, James T.. Lungren, Norris L Luse, Frances E.

INDEX .

Page.
1476 1756 1364 1339 1322 1573 1476 1365 1686 1701 1649 1464 1477 1364 1532 1372 1372 1425 1281 1363 1434 1308 1285 1396 1459 1581 1293 1596 1575 1343 1750 1457 1357 1562 1675 1646 1412 1453 1468 1600 1726 1644 1601 1510 1321 1664 1544 1513 1425 1402 1361 1646 1238 1401 1746 1260 1637 1602 1516 1553 1399 1614 1294 1706 1481 1707 1717 1601 1337 1421 1648 1293 1720

Pensions- Continued. grantedLynn, Frank W McArdle, Dorcas McCarthy, Julia . McClure, Jemima . McCollum, Inez McCord, Sarah McCranie, Margaret J. McDonald, Elizabeth McFarland, Ada L .. McGahan, Laban . McGuinn, Catherine . McGuire, Nancy.. McJunkin, Lue Emma McKinley, Ida S .. McKinley, Jennie A McNett, Abby Clark . Maddox, Martha . Mahan, James B Maher, Julia . Mallicoat, Daniel L Manner, John J Marshall, Matilda A Martin, Thomas .. Maschmeyer, Charles .. Matthews, Catharine T. R
Mattson, Cherstin ............ Maynard, Absolum . Meade, Catherine Meade, John W. Medlin, Presley P Mennecke, William Merrill, Charles F.
Merrow, Mary Ann . Milburn, Harriet . Miller, Herman J Miller, William A Miller, William G Milligan, Hulda . Montanye, Samuel H Moody, Esther F. Moore, Catharine . Moore, John W Moore, Mary J Morgan, Mary E. W. Morrill, Visa C. Morton, George H
Mulford, Joseph W. Mullin, Michael .
Munn, Evarts Ewing Munson, Margaret A. Murphy, Minerva . Murphy, Patrick J. Nalley, Elizabeth A Neal, Elizabeth Nelson, John C .. Nelson, John S .. Nelson, William A .. Newcomb, Samantha A Newman, John G Newton, Oliver W. O'Donnell, Patrick W Ogden, Elizabeth I Ogden, Katherine R. A Orr, Adelbert L. Osborne, Ruth B Osbourn, Martha R. Packard, Abbie M. Painter, William W. Pangle, Isaac M Park, Ada V Parker, Mary J. Partridge, Simeon Paulsen, Halvor ..

Page.
1395 1541 1588 1466 1684 1241 1677 1406 1410 1745 1757 1730 1291 1338 1253 1297 1754 1484 1256 1494 1404 1595 1626 1644 1743 1529 1495 1266 1315 1424 1734 1338 1410 1454 1632 1546 1493 1521 1746 1238 1242 1337 1501 1240 1713 1270 1239 1507 1685 1657 1742 1383 1498 1655 1531 1333 1591 1716 1620 1709 1682 1419 1255 1426 1289 1305 1297
1647 1479 1390 1664 1308 1690

Pensions- Continued .
grantedPawling, Emma R. Payne, Alida .. Peake, Charles E Pearce, Kate .. Pendland, Alonzo Pepper, Helen L ..
Perveil, Leighton M Peters, Mary A... Pflueger, Catherine . Pinney, Andrew P. Piper, Rebecca . Poiron, Lavinia F. Pollard, Judson N Pook, Ellen F .. Powell, Emma Dean . Powell, James H Preston, Delania. Price, Isaac B .. Race, Charlotte H
Ralston, Maggie Randall, Alvira .. Randolph, William F Rayel, Catherine
Reardon, Fannie Record, Cynthia M. Reedy, Annie T Reedy, Daniel J. Reilley, John A Rice, Minnie M Roberts, John H Roberts, William C. Robinson, Harriet . Robinson, Minerva Robison, Almedia J Rogers, Joanna.... Rogers, Lura B. Rogers, M. C ... Rommel, Joanna Ruggles, William H Rumple, Mary H. Russell, Amelia A
Rutherford, Abner D Sager, Ellen A Sampson, Asa E. Santhoff, Anton Sawdy, Catharine A Sawyer, Jennie M
Scanlon, Margaret Schaefer, Caroline Scott, James R. Homer Scott, Wallace L. Scriven, Mary V.
Seavey, Stephen A. Seymore, Fredereka Shandrew, Ella F. Sheafe, Charles A Sheets, Christopher Columbus . Sheldon, Hiram A .. Shinn, Annie Shipman, Zebulon A. Sichel, Kathinka
Sieg, Harry H ... Sigel, Elise ... Simmons, Elizabeth W Sirwell, Lucinda A
Slusser, Mary J. Smalley, Alice F. Smith, Albert M. Smith, Ira P Smith, Maria M. C Smith, Sarah E. Smith, Sarah M Smoot, John W.

INDEX .

Page.
1303 1323 1559 1296 1715 1251 1744 1515 1255 1670 1605 1692 1561 1551 1580 1633 1648 1745 1297 1354 1666 1646 1749 1487 1266 1588 1588 1462 1365 1603 1499 1593 1550 1632 1560 1269 1366 1528 1511 1653 1344 1708 1528 1567 1750 1704 1511 1714 1754 1380 1721 1556 1432 1463 1748 1284 1371 1558 1415 1439 1755 1285 1653 1313 1419 1648 1684 1683 1555 1601 1626 1323 1433

Pensions- Continued . grantedSnook, Sarah J.
Snyder, Margaret... Southerland, John J. Springfield, Hiram J Stanwood, Louisa Josephine . Stebbins, Frances E. Steele, James T Steensland, Ole Steiger, Christiana .. Stephens, Christopher S Steward, Augusta.. Stewart, Eliza . Stewart, India . Stith, Malvina C. Stocker, Arvilla N
Stone, Mary ... Stout, Florence M Streeter, Lizana D.
Stricksma, Egbert A. Strohauer, Fannie E.
Stuart, Margaret A. Styles, Benjamin E.. Sudsburg, Helena . Sullivan, John
Sweeney, Mary . Taft, Sarah Frances . Taggart, Annie D .. Tait, Narcissa
Talcott, Mary H. Taylor, Angeline H. Taylor, Jane . Taylor, Susan J Terry, Susan .. Thomas, Anna J. Thomas, Hester Thomas, John W. Thomason, Joel Thomson, Alexander J. Tillotson, Frances A Timmons, Hannah A
Tisdale, Margaret.. Towner, Samantha Townsend, Clara B Trask, Mary C ..
Tripp, Mary .. Trout, Ann Eliza Tucker, George.. Tunison, Matilda Turchin, Nadine A Turner, Augusta. Turner, Jerome W Tusinski, Joseph Tynan, Michael
Upshaw, John S. Van Brocklin, Samantha B..
Van Wye, Laura A Vickers, Christopher Vickers, Jane Vickers, Samuel J Vogan, William
Von Steinwehr, Mary Florence . Vore, Austin A.. Wade, Nelson W Waldo, Harold P Walker, Charles M Walker, Susan Wallace, John . Walton, Lewis Waltrip, Sarah A. Warren, Ida M Warrick, Charles A. Washburn, Kazier . Watts, John ...

2169
Page.
1658 1651 1500 1423 1728 1296 1402 1440 1353 1482 1496 1337 1306 1290 1725 1509 1753 1453 1412 1557 1701 1420 1429 1617 1331 1332 1296 1286 1742 1480 1246 1506 1289 1329 1293 1496 1708 1726 1437 1404 1479 1488 1343 1371 1249 1298 1396 1737 1330 1333 1759 1366 1292 1549 1425 1314 1462 1462 1462 1722 1459 1650 1464 1685 1703 1482 1719 1624 1602 1378 1731 1291 1372

2170
Pensions- Continued.
grantedWatts, Robert.. Wear, Laura B Webster, Adela S. Weirauch, Mina.. Weisenburger, Laura G. Wells, Eudora.. West, Eliza J West, Henrietta V. West, Margaret Ann Whetsell, William L. Whidden, John H... White, Louisa... Whitehouse, Etta H Whitlege, John S. Wild, Frances E. Wilder, Elizabeth A Williams, Nancy M. Williamson, John
Wilson, Benjamin F Wilson, William M .. Windes, Henry H Winterbottom, Mary E Woodall, Dicey.. Woodruff, Joseph H. Woodward, Frederick S. Woolsey, Mabel A... Works, Nancy. Wright, Eliza A Wylie, Benjamin Yant, Samantha . Yates, Simon M York, John . Young, Martha G.
Zollinger, Mary F increased-
Abbott, Chester W Abbott, Eliza B Acee, Stiles L Acker, John W Ackridge, Robert L. Acree, Jasper N Adams, Augustin M Adams, Marietta L. Adams, Mourse R Ahlstedt, Oswald Alexander, Joseph M Alexander, Perry H. Alexander, Solomon A. Allen, Albert W. Allen, Charles.. Allen, John U.. Allen, Sarah E. Allen, William H. Alsbach, Oliver P. Amadon, John H. Ambrook, Charles Ambrose, James R
Amick, Freeling H Anderson, Albanis L. Anderson, Etta Adair . Anderson, Frances T. Anderson, Mariah J Anderson, William W Anderton, Francis W Andre, Dennis F. Andress, Mary A Andrews, Reuben Angevine, William F Anglada, Julia... Anthony, Frances H. Appleton, Edmond B Arbaugh, Joseph B Armstrong, Charles ..

INDEX .

Page.
1474 1245 1298 1550 1313 1737 1436 1690 1602 1601 1593 1438 1567 1652 1716 1627 1475 1502 1734 1730 1724 1724 1569 1536 1686 1720 1602 1321 1281 1712 1729 1413 1476 1388
1638 1749 1523 1450 1342 1672 1424 1393 1262 1410 1732 1356 1730 1715 1348 1671 1341 1313 1721 1744 1346 1549 1750 1724 1389 1355 1355 1513 1442 1588 1368 1568 1517 1624 1444 . 1486 1316 1279

Pensions- Continued . increasedArmstrong, Edward H. Armstrong, William R.
Arnold, Sydda B Ash, Grace E. Ashby, Joseph K. Ashley, James M Ashmore, Samuel . Atkinson, George.
Auchmoody, Wright H Austin, Ann E Austin, James . Austin, James . Bachelder, Charles E Bachelder, Marshall Bader, James E Badger Aaron C. Bagley, Adelaide Worth Bailey, Lunsford Y .. Baird, Charlotte E. Baker, Charles H. Baker, Francis C Baker, George .. Baldwin, Charles O. Baldwin, David A Baldwin, George R. Baldwin, Sarah F.
Ball, Henry. Ball, Lillie V. Ball, William E Ballou, Alice M Barcus, John A. Barger, Mary E Barger, Sarah B. Barkalow, Gilbert Barker, William S. Barlow, Otis A Barnard, John Barnes, Charles H. Barnes, Israel F.
Barnum , Joseph H Barrett, Charles Barrett, William Barrett, William. Barry, George W. Barstow, William M. Bart, Joseph Barton, Jacob . Bassett, Thomas . Batey, Charles K.
Beals, Mary.. Beckwith, Edwin . Beebe, Francis M. Belk, William.... Benefeldt, Frederick.. Benner, Israel A Bennett, De Witt C. Bennett, Henry R. Benson, Henry F. Bereman, Sarah D
Berry, George W .. Berry, William .. Bevis, Lucy B. Bice, Jesse W Billingsley, James . Binford, John D. Bisbee, Elisha T. Bittman, Peter Bixby, Caroline W Black, George W Blackman, Lorenzo . Blades, James M Blain, Edward R Blanchard, William

Page.
1331 1323 1572 1671 1283 1398 1551 1534 1274 1398 1352 1484 1258 1260 1527 1276 1264 1400 1536 1282 1556 1537 1427 1738 1514 1428 1311 1718 1440 1284 1676 1728 1657 1524 1541 1463 1328 1780 1659 1295 1466 1564 1678 1454 1422 1650 1305 1666 1537 1386 1485 1498 1585 1552 1297 1388 1662 1339 1565 1566 1341 1312 1382 1616 1586 1257 1347 1687 1244 1320 1584 1423 1407

Pensions- Continued . increasedBliss, Thomas Blodgett, Richard N Blood, Albert Blood, Alfred O
Bogardus, Benjamin S Boice, Martin .
Bond, Benjamin N Bonham, John S Bonneau, Francis N Booker, Richmond L Boomhower, Herbert A. Bortle, Samuel Bougher, John . Boughton, William O. Bouslough, William H. H. Bowden, Alonzo S.
Bowden, Bailey O Bowen, Sarah
Bowers, George F Bowland, James D. Bowman, John L. Boyd, Caroline R. Boyd, George B Boyd, Margaret M. Boyer, Samuel J .. Boyington, Charles S Brabham, Stanton L.. Brace, Leman A .. Bradfield, Abraham
Bradshaw, George W Bradshaw, Rhody Ann . Bramble, James A.. Branson, John L. Brattain, John W. Breckons, Mary Bremmer, Abbie C Brewster, Oscar Bridgman, Charles R. Briggs, Caleb C. Briggs, John F
Brill, George W Brill, John.. Briscoe, Samuel
Brittingham, Benjamin Brobst, David .. Brockett, James R. Brockway, Solomon P Brosnan, Jane.. Brower, John G. Brown, Annie E. Brown, Charles E
Brown, George Brown, James .. Brown, John . Brown, John . Brown, John M Brown, Milton Brown, Nelson Brown, Rachel Brown, Samuel . Brown, Vesta A Brown, William . Bruce, Mary T Bruck, David T. Buchanan, William G Buckholz, Joseph A Budd, Enos G.
Buell, Leroy N Bulkley, Frederick
Bump, George E.. Burch, Joseph W. Burchfield, James P Burger, Charles F

INDEX .

Page.
1321 1263 1592 1576 1542 1450 1686 1485 1628 1352 1362 1473 1754 1738 1661 1748 1537 1716 1389 1374 1364 1369 1255 1340 1660 1691 1533 1663 1338 1518 1268 1321 1407 1719 1465 1526 1619 1298 1403 1686 1616 1413 1260 1274 1631 1374 1456 1549 1287 1349 1538 1640 1536 1385 1757 1683 1406 1552 1470 1539 1429 1414 1370 1471 1548 1618 1397 1749 1526 1498 1296 1317 1242

Pensions - Continued . increasedBurke, Amanda Burke, John Burke, William Burket, John S .. Burnham , John W.
Burns, Henry Burnside, Myron C. Burr, Lonson R Burrell, Samuel Burton, Ambrose .
Burton, Henry E. Bushnell, Gilbert E. Busteed, Robert H
Butler, George W Byrnes, Daniel J. Caldwell, Jacob D. Calkins, Elias A.
Cameron, Angus Cameron, Charles K Campbell, James F. Campbell, James P Campbell, John C. Campbell, John S Campbell, John W Campbell, William A Canfield, Alonzo F .. Canfield, Justus Cantley, William G. Canty, John ... Capehart, Elizabeth A Capen, James A.. Cardwell, Benjamin Carlton, Nelson W. Carney, Patrick Carpenter, A. Curtis Steever . Carpenter, David O .. Carpenter, Robert ... Carr, John H .. Carroll, Catharine A . Carter, Reuben F. Cartmill, James M. Cary, Dudley Case, Absalom Case, Scott Caslow, Philip Caspar, Stanley M Caughey, Thomas L Chafee, Noah F Chamberlin, Edgar T Chamberlin, George Chamberlin, William H. Chanaberry, Freeman R. E Chandler, Esek B Chandler, John Chandler, Marvin Chaney, George R... Charlesworth, James F Chase, Franklin. Chase, May Mosher. Chase, Ransford T. Chatfield, William C. Chedester, James H
Cheney, George J Cheney, Ozro F Chesley, Charles C. Chester, Jane P
Chilcoat, Joseph S. Chittum, Elbert . Chitwood, William J. Christian, William .. Christianson, Christian . Church, Joseph .. Church, William L..

2171
Page.
1726 1752 1544 1401 1302 1284 1356 1367 1630 1252 1568 1688 1518 1438 1535 1292 1420 1526 1628 1701 1634 1412 1624 1472 1369 1595 1360 1555 1547 1384 1658 1636 1572 1747 1247 1518 1447 1739 1563 1620 1733 1466 . 1583 1624 1663 1421 1561 1302 1468 1441 1635 1336 1475 1240 1507 1342 1272 1654 1696 1554 1732 1539 1673 1619 1682 1635 1702 1656 1679 1548 1414 1255 1500

2172
Pensions- Continued . increased-
Churchill, Lucy T. Churchill, Nelson . Cilley, Emma Sophia Harper. Clark, Agnes Clark, Ellen J. Clark, Frank J Clark, Frederick O. Clark, Julius W Clark, Martha . Clark, Mary J Clark, Nimrod F. Clark, Robert Clark, William Clarke, Katherine W Claybourn, James Cleaves, Frank Cleek, Peter C .. Clement, James M. Clements, Kate H Clift, Inez L ..
Clough, Joseph M Coates, John H.. Coffin, Fred F. B. Cogswell, Leander W
Cohn, Magnus J .. Coit, Annie W.. Colby, Charles W Cole, Martin G Cole, Stephen G. Coles, Charles F Collahan, John C Collier, Ann E. Collier, John P Collins, Levi H. Collins, Theodore F Collins, Thomas L..
Comer, Henry S .. Comins, Ann.. Compton, Elvira C Compton, John Comstock, Morris M. Condon, Frederick A Connell, Hattie . Connit, Susan F. Conrad, James M. Contal, Benjamin .. Cook, Delitha A .. Cook, John Cook, Julia A Cooke, Charles A Cool, Hugh Cooley, James . Cooper, Benjamin Cooper, Elvira M. Copley, John W. Cornman, Benjamin F Cory, Anna L Cosier, Dennis . Cotter, Annie Couch, Martha A. Covey, Israel P. Covey, John W
Cowgill, Joseph Craig, John Craig, Mary E. Craine, John W Cramer, Jennie H Crawford, John H. Crawford, William C Crim, Isaac H .. Crist, John M Cronk, Hiram . Crooker, Charles T

INDEX .

Page.
1734 1478 1347 1405 1380 1299 1405 1325 1431 1352 1627 1559 1506 1524 1634 1689 1304 1627 1326 1624 1308 1312 1266 1689 1554 1641 1654 1740 1670 1509 1745 1392 1428 1456 1351 1568 1249 1464 1681 1541 1547 1409 1680 1244 1486 1619 1636 1522 1618 1520 1703 1376 1598 1625 1722 1673 1381 1628 1423 1268 1288 1585 1322 1292 1678 1469 1621 1478 1718 1319 1439 1271 1435

Pensions- Continued . increased-
Cropsey, Emma R. Crosby, Louisa A.... Cross, Fannie S .. Cross, John J Cross, Levi .... Crosser, John S Culbreath, Joseph . Cummings, Charles L.. Cummings, George Cunningham, Ephraim . Cupps, David Curd, Alexander Curley, James . Curran, Phineas . Curry, John R Curry, John R Curtis, Moses S. Curtis, Richmond M.
Curtis, Wellington D Cushing, Kate Virginia Dewey Cushing, Martin G Cushman, Nannie Custers, Mathias Da Silva, John Dagnall, Elbert H. Dalrymple, Charles . Daly, Michael J. Damon, Frederick W Daniels, Abby T. Daniels, Edgar T
Daniels, George Dauphin, Theophile A Davenport, Henry L. Davenport, James L David, William C .. Davidson, John J. Davis, Allen C Davis, Charles C
Davis, George . Davis, Hilas D Davis, Homer . Davis, James G Davis, William W. H Day, John W De Garis, William G.
De Graw, George W. De Long, Harrison T
De Marse, Henry E .. Deery, Eliza C Deits, Albert .. Delamater, Almond Delany, Franklin B Delony, Lewis H. Deming, Hiram D. Demonbrun, Ann Dennis, Cornelia A Deno, Simeon .. Derby, William S. Detweiler, Eunice P Deweese, John T. Dewstoe, Jessie R Dexter, James E.. Dick, John W.. Dickey, Lavalette D Dickinson, Edward S Dillon, Ardenia Dillon, Michael
Divers, Christopher G Dixon, Charles . Dixon, William H
Doane, Mary L.. Doberrer, John Dodd, Enoch..

Page.
1673 1458 1540 1555 1261 1538 1345 1383 1693 1668 1256 1550 1713 1270 1558 1622 1477 1374 1265 1257 1692 1681 1570 1637 1696 1543 1413 1616 1416 1404 1324 1341 1678 1746 1345 1643 1552 1517 1666 1656 1645 1678 1474 1726 1448 1422 1246 1341 1575 1420 1313 1305 1349 1326 1295 1513 1663 1269 1240 1263 1593 1330 1565 1346 1335 1659 1238 1755 1382 1396 1431 1669 1641

Pensions- Continued. increased-
Dodge, George W Dodge, Thomas W. Donne, Daniel
Donohoe, Timothy Dorman, Ephraim D. Dougan, William A Dowery, Anne.... Downing, Benjamin H. Downing, John ..
Downing, Mary S Downs, William W Doyle, Thomas . Drake, John M. Du Barry, Helen A. B Dudley, Charles C. Duffy, George M Dugan, Peter .. Dunbar, Henry Gifford Duncan, Susan E .. Duncklee, Lorenzo P. Dunn, James H
Dunn, Margaret . Dunning, Edwin M. Durant, Edward T. Durham, James H. Eagon, Elizabeth J Eastin , William Eaton, Nathaniel
Edens, Henry W Edge, Henry J Edgington, George W. Edmonds, George W Edmonds, James A.. Edmunds, Catharine F. Edmunds, Erastus E.. Edwards, Helen F. M Egbert, Lila L ...
Ehmke, Henry. Elderkin, Frances Gurley Elderkin, James D Elmendorf, Newton W Ely, Charles S. Embick, Milton A. Emerson, Eleanor Emery, Elizabeth J. Emery, George M Emery, Ida C .. Englesby, Philo F. Esty, Elvin A .. Eugas, William .. Evans, Allen B.
Evans, George H. Evans, Griffith . Evans, Ira L ... Evans, James Evans, Jeremiah Eveland, John A. Evens, Annie L.. Everett, Lewis P. Everitt, John H. Ewing, Samuel E. Fairbank, Wallace .. Fales, Mary Elizabeth Fall, Orin T. Fallon, Bridget . Farmer, Fanny . Farmer, Hampton B Farne, George .. Farrell, Michael . Faught, Thomas B.
Faulkner, Mary Jane Fay, Harry C .. Fay, Josiah S ..

INDEX .

Page.
1362 1450 1411 1540 1368 1688 1429 1623 1716 1442 1749 1656 1656 1446 1332 1699 1452 1243 1615 1692 1438 1328 1414 1731 1643 1476 1354 1240 1391 1428 1501 1563 1272 1418 1618 1238 1579 1619 1322 1273 1531 1544 1291 1441 1554 1309 1309 1391 1401 1273 1676 1327 1447 1621 1627 1252 1282 1368 1742 1467 1573 1567 1575 1580 1714 1695 1672 1327 1318 1712 1350 1559 1588

Pensions- Continued . increasedFehrenback, William E ... Feldhausen, Joseph Fellows, William A. P.
Feltus, Henry J ... Feneran, Thomas . Ferguson, Delanio . Ferguson, John Fernow, Berthold Findley, Thomas . Finegan, Thomas . Fishbaugh, Lewis Fisher, Cassius B. Fisher, Fannie T.
Fisher, Henry. Fitch, Alice A. Flanagan, Christian J Flanagan, James Fleming, Abel .. Fleming, Mary E. Fler, John . Flinn , William Flynn, David Fogg, Andrew J
Folsom, Leighton J. Forcht, Henry Forrester, Thomas G. Foster, Charles W
Foster, Emory S.. Foster, James P Fountain, Horace .
Fowler, George . Fox, Edmund P.
Fox, Joseph W. France, William H Francis, Horatio N Frank, Emil Frazier, Milton ... Freeman, Andrew J Freeman, Frank E .. Freeman, Jason E Freeman, Otis R.. French, Tempy . French, Wilson . Frey, James .. Frier, David A Fristoe, Richard . Frost, William S Fuchs, Paul .. Fuller, Luman Fullerton, John Fusselman, George Fyffe, Clifford Neff Gabrion, Gilbert G Gabrion, Isaac Gagan, John .. Gammon, Edward M Garber, Uriah .. Garland, James Garner, John
Garrison, Mary Ann . Gaskill, Henry W Gaston, John Gates, James N Gatliff, Aaron S George, Abbie .. George, Thomas J Gerry, Sarah A... Getman, Gethro M Getty, Elizabeth G Gibbs, Thomas H. H Gibson, Isaac Gifford, Andrew H. Gifford, Sarah E

2173
Page.
1675 1721 1522 1588 1325 1386 1243 1660 1351 1479 1587 1669 1751 1241 1587 1639 1755 1521 1702 1524 1577 1756 1452 1249 1548 1676 1332 1324 1753 1589 1244 1684 1756 1738 1303 1259 1578 1326 1662 1496 1421 1248 1739 1378 1316 1282 1561 1392 1570 1736 1487 1386 1412 1719 1273 1714 1400 1710 1294 1729 1551 1358 1590 1351 1387 1655 1634 1379 1441 1340 1481 1258 1711

2174
Pensions -Continued . increasedGilbert, Alonzo Gilbert, Jennie M Gilbert, Lyman A. L Gillam, Mary J Gilliland, Leath . Gilman, Francis M Gilmore, Mary A. F Gisborne, Oliver .. Glazer, Joanna . Glenn, John Goddard, Hallowell Goddard, Luther D. Godfrey, Edwin J Godfrey, Maria L.. Goff, Edward N. Goodwin, Nathaniel C Goodwin, Oliver P Gordon, Julia L. Gorrell, Cyrus V
Gould, Alphonso T Gould, Elizabeth O. Gove, Freeman R Gowdey, Edwin M Graham, Charles . Graham, Ella R. Graham, Harry L Graham, John Graham, Thomas . Grainger, Charles M Granger, Lydia M. Grant, Joseph W. Grant, Margaret M Graves, Samuel M .. Gray, James F Gray, William G Gray, Wilson G Greely, Charles B Green, Lizzie B Green, William H. Greenhalgh, John B. Greenleaf, Martha A.. Greenman, Anson Greenman, James Greer, Rebecca R. Gregg, John W.
Grennue, Joseph Griffen, Zeno  Griffin, Heber C .. Grimes, Queen Esther Grinnell, Benjamin .. Grinstead, Louisa N Grove, Lemuel Grove, Leonard S Grove, Hans A Guinn, George W
Gumm , Betsey Guy, William M. Haas, Johann Conrad . Hahn, Frederick M. Hahn , Louis Haight, Elias M Hale, James A.. Hall, Daniel A Hall, John . Hall, John H Hall, Sybil F. Haller, Israel Haltenhof, Charles Ham, David.. Hamilton, Edgar A. Hamilton, John . Hamilton, William T Hamlin, Carlin ..

INDEX .

Page.
1687 1722 1592 1480 1449 1272 1750 1329 1755 1545 1392 1683 1339 1387 1460 1324 1249 1505 1620 1662 1237 1539 1450 1690 1325 1711 1744 1715 1539 1386 1279 1368 1280 1472 1365 1642 1590 1342 1516 1418 1333 1557 1686 1598 1303 1743 1383 1308 1464 1510 1479 1380 1632 1740 1357 1463 1287 1473 1290 1361 1315 1638 1430 1373 1712 1302 1448 1424 1527 1422 1668 1402 1328

Pensions - Continued . increasedHammond, Caroline A. Hankins, James W Hanna, Emma S.. Hannah, Thomas. Hannifin, Dennis . Hanscom, Richard G Haraldson, Torgus .. Hargreaves, Robert. Harper, James Harrington, Grace. Harrington, William Harris, Isaac . Harris, Parmenas F.
Harris, Stephen Harrison, Ambrus U. Harrison, James... Harrower, Benjamin S. Hart, Albert J. Hart, Frederick Hartzell, Alvin J.
Harvey, Elijah E. Haskell, Ann M Haslam, Esther D Hasselman, Otto H Hatch, Adelaide G. Hatch, Harriet .. Hatchett, Levi Hathaway, Martin V Hattery, William M Hatton, George W.. Haughton, Frances C. Hawkins, Emily... Hays, Susan .. Hazelton, John A Hazzard, Charles H.
Hazzard, Joseph D. Headington, Nimrod . Heard, Melinda Heath, Orra H Heddleson, Mary B. Heinzman, George. Heiser, John G.. Heiskell, Ferdinand Helton, Oliver P.. Henderson, William A .. Hendry, Margaret Hersum , Ann A .. Hertzog, Andrew J. Hess, Clarence D ... Hexom, Ole.. Heywood, William Hicks, Andrew E.
Higgins, George H. Hill, Asa C.. Hill, Emmet C Hill, Jane K ..
Hill, Lucy M. Hills, Frank E Hoag, Israel V Hoag, William Hober, Hiram A.
Hockenbury, Allen . Hodge, William M ..
Hodges, Augustus E. Hoefer, Margaret . Hoffman, William K. Holcomb, William C. Holdridge, William . Holgate, William .. Holiday, Sylvester. Hollister, John .. Holmes, Ira J. S. Holstein, Maggie V.

Page.
1497 1381 1390 1460 1243 1752 1325 1556 1282 1735 1430 1723 1549 1508 1560 1748 1461 1724 1614 1396 1363 1690 1469 1349 1490 1654 1446 1251 1736 1403 1436 1703 1348 1305 1431 1392 1432 1526 1408 1576 1614 1538 1722 1574 1535 1321 1686 1551 1555 1674 1597 1485 1702 1631 1668 1345 1263 1733 1659 1347 1591 1359 1523 1339 1358 1288 1437 1396 1362 1549 1338 1731 1694

Pensions-Continued. increasedHonseal, William H Hoop, Gibboney F
Hooper, Mary F. Hooper, Otis T. Hopkins, Hannah J Horn, William F Horne, A. Paul. Horton, James E Hosack, William S Hostetler, William H. T
Hotaling, Lyman Houghton, George E. Housiaux, John Houston, Alman J
Houston, Stephen J Howard, Anderson Howard, Charles G Howard, Samuel M Howarth, Richard S
Howe, George F. Howe, John M. Howe, Michael . Hoxie, William H Hoyt, Edna K.. Hubbard, Jared P Hubbard, Jesse H Huckelberry, John W
Hudson, Henry P Hudson, William H Huffman, Abraham W. Huffman, John .......
Hufford, Jeffrey . Hughes, Benjamin F Humphrey, James W
Hunt, Henry. Hunt, Mitchell . Hunter, J. Banks . Hunter, James Hunter, John S .. Huntsman, John W. B. Hutchinson, Eliza M. Hutchinson, John G .. Hutchinson, William S. Hyman, Samuel . Hymer, Samuel Ingram, Pitsar.. Ireland, David A Irvine, James Irwin, Oceana B. Jack, John H Jackman, Ann M. Jackson, Andrew Jackson, Oliver C .. Jackson, Willard A James, Hannah E James, Thomas E Janes, Hiram... Jasper, Obed D. Jenkins, Evaline .
Jennings, Henry . Johnson, Edwin P. Johnson, Gilman B
Johnson, Peter . Johnson, William G Johnston, Lambert . Johnston, Martha A Johnston, Sanders W Jones, Andrew R .. Jones, Betsey Jones, Julia E .. Jones, James . Joseph, Annie E.. Joseph, James H

INDEX .

Page.
1734 1677 1259 1590 1691 1392 1692 1377 1493 1709 1566 1310 1426 1664 1580 1286 1451 1326 1746 1653 1314 1751 1414 1656 1598 1428 1559 1409 1531 1757 1584 1744 1751 1379 1451 1689 1587 1607 1285 1592 1747 1328 1585 1513 1247 1436 1251 1465 1463 1360 1694 1675 1730 1687 1566 1383 1534 1378 1439 1522 1497 1693 1622 1319 1709 1425 1745 1438 1668 1641 1652 1427 1734

Pensions- Continued. increased-
Journal, Frederick . Judkins, Abner M Kafer, Gottlieb .. Kanouse, Edward M. Karmany, Uriah S .. Kauffman, Joseph A. Keen, John Keenan, Martha V Kehn, John H
Keith, Fordyce M Keith, William..
Keller, Mary B. Kelley, John, 2d Kelley, William . Kelley, William. Kellough, Richard M Kelly, Mary E Kendig, La Myra V Kepler, William
Kerbey, Joseph A Kerr, George.. Kerr, Oliver..
Key, Mary F.. Kidder, Augustus L. Kile, Oliver W Killam , Lewis C.
Kimball, William A Kimberly, Nannie M. Kimble, Emma L. Kindy, Abram O
King, George A King, Leon ... King, Minnie E King, Shepherd H. King,William . Kingsbury, Hiram H Kingsley, Hiram S Kiper, James D Kirwan, Thomas Knapp, Byron C Knapp, Christine . Knapp, William ... Knepple, William H.
Knestrict, Benjamin Knight, liza
Knights, Hinkley G Knoop, John T. Knowles, Daniel C. Koerner, Gotthard Koops, Bertha R Krohn, Philip .. Kropf, Frederick Kunselman, William Kurth, John B Lafferty, James D Lake, Sarah H Lambden, Samuel J Lance, Charles Edward Price . Landers, Hester A. R .. Lane, Lawrentus Lane, Theodore .. Langworthy, R. Sherman Larimer, Richard A .. Larrabee, Cyrenus . Larzalere, William Latour, Lewis G .. Lauchly, John H. Laughlin, John.. Lawrence, Richard A. Lawrence, Warren W. H. Lawton, David E. Leach, Christianna Leach, Morton A

2175
Page.
1732 1598 1618 1310 1253 1718 1734 1261 1705 1688 1738 1579 1584 1460 1535 1483 1335 1317 1657 1525 1530 1398 1294 1754 1752 1263 1574 1529 1435 1361 1578 1511 1269 1711 1727 1295 1258 1571 1542 1714 1710 1430 1642 1638 1546 1447 1631 1242 1542 .1581 1706 1576 1417 1289 1417 1369 1350 1437 1680 1248 1258 1458 1658 1416 1337 1460 1497 1543 1280 1494 1733 1459 1599

2176

INDEX .

Pensions- Continued.

Page. Pensions- Continued .

Page.

increased--

increased-

Leary, Augusta Neville

1525

McDowell, George.

1390

Leckie, Helen Olivia..

1728

McElheney, Annie

1309

Lee, Charles N

1250

McFadden, Henry J

1564

Lee, Patrick .

1312

McGrath, John ..

1240

Leepard, Sarah A.

1629

McGrath, John ..

1301

Leffingwell, Hiram S

1546

McHenry, William H.

1696

Leffingwell, Samuel L ..

1383

McHarg, Fannie..

1579

Lehew, James

1326

McIntire, Archibald

1667

Leighton, George C.

1279

McIntosh, Jesse A

1592

Leighton, Jason

1306

McKnight, James H

1536

Leland, Sidney .

1301

McLorinen, Catherine P

1710

Lemon, Robert.

1464

McKeehan, James A..

1379

Lessig, William H Lester, Bessie H..

1518

McKenny, Cynthia A.

1299

1311

McKnight, David M.

1455

Lewis, Alonzo ..

1367

McLaughlin, Emma

1303

Lewis, Anson

1725

McMillen, Millen ..

1510

Lewis, James W.

1399

McMorrow, James.

1671

Lewis, Plummer . Libby, Harry F

1723

McMurry, George N.

1639

1640

McNair, Clara W.

1489

Lieberg, Eberhard P.

1553

McNair, James E.

1458

Likes, Edmond ..

1553

McPherson, John A. T.

1739

Lillman, Fredericke W. Lincoln, Matthew W.

1661

McQuiddy, Amanda E.

1710

1701

McRae, Robert P.

1676

Linton, Harvey B

1533

McVicker, James H

1557

Lister, Elizabeth

1715

Macfarlane, John ...

1635

Little, Eliza .. Littlefield, Eliza E..

1679

Macfarlane, Louisa M..

1449

1660

Mack, Theron R..

1369

Litton, Mahale

1265

Mackey, William H

1319

Lockhart, Joseph D.

1685

Macloon, Henry P.

1595

Longman, Elias .

1281

Mahan, Patrick.

1708

Loomis, William F.

1598

Mahoney, Daniel J

1415

Loucks, Nellie ...
Loughlin, Timothy Love, Lucien B.

1378

Maley, Sarah ....

1312

1664

Manes, Mary .

1588

1742

Mannix, Ella B. S..

1486

Lovejoy, Arthur P.

1508

Mantach, James ..

1291

Lowe, William

1625

Maples, David C ..

1323

Lowery, Oscar W.

1397

Marble, John

1494

Loyd, William H Lucas, Daniel R

1594

Marden, Maria A.

1693

1741

Maricle, Robert H..

1630

Luce, Benjamin F. H

1348

Markle, William

1579

Ludlow, Genevieve Almira Sprigg

1381

Marnane, Michael

1394

Ludlum, Joseph H ..

1727

Marshall, Daniel P

1595

Ludwig, John .

1507

Marshall, James M

1636

Lund, Sidney N

1527

Martin, James B

1717

Luke, Anna E.

1380

Martin, John J..

1408

Luman, Anne M..

1501

Martin, Joseph R.

1251

Lyman, Rachel S.

1400

Martin, Marcellus M. M.

1433

Lynch, Susan B

1501

Mathews, George W

1449

Lynde, Williamanna E..

1299

Matney, William B.

1353

McAdams, Francis M ..

1465

Matson, Courtland C ..

1411

McArthur, John ..

1586

Matthews, James..

1356

McArthur, Nancy J

1502

Matthews, Lyman

1654

McCarter, William H.

1476

Matthews, William

1395

McClellen, James R..

1314

Mattingly, James ..

1643

McClosson, Graham

1630

Maxfield, Isadora F

1545

McClure, George W.

1252

Maxwell, Charles P.

1471

McClure, Henry O ..

1677

Maxwell, William H.

1577

McClure, James P

1431

May, Stephen

1359

McClure, Joseph D.

1476

May, Thomas P

1531

McColley, Eva H ..

1274

May, Wallace K.

1553

McConnaughey, Thomas H.

1257

Mealey, James

1574

McComb, George W.

1659

Medbury, Matthew C ..

1320

McConnell, Alexander F.

1375

Melton, Minerva

1383

McCormick, Bernard

1406

Mercer, George A

1521

McCoy, Dewit C ..

1334

Mercer, Henderson

1660

McCoy, Francis M.

1585

Merchant, Warren Y

1427

McCoy, Jonas M.

1264

Merrell, Austin P.

1746

McCuen, Margaret ..

1440

Merrell, Sarah C ..

1694

McCullough, Robert M.

1216

Merrick, James .

1402

McCurley, Anna B.

1311

Merrill, Allen W

1510

McDaniel, George ..

1318

Merrill, Merzellah .

1519

McDonald, Barbara .

1336

Merritt, Marcia M

1246

McDonald, John ..

1332

Merritt, Sarah E ..

1702

Pensions-Continued. increased-
Mess, Joseph S Messick, James W. Metz, Joel.. Meyer, Jane M. Michie, Maria Louisa Milam, John S Milburn, Samuel P Millard, Corydon .. Miller, Adah I. Miller, Andrew W. Miller, Charles E.. Miller, Eliza M.. Miller, John
Miller, Mary R. Miller, Robert . Milsted, Thomas Milward, Kate W Mischler, Caroline . Misner, Charles Mitchell, Etta Scott. Mitchell, Samuel S Moderwell, Erastus C ... Montfort, Peter C Montgomery, Charles M Montgomery, William Monty, James ..
Mooney, Phillip .. Moore, James Moore, John L .. Moore, Lewis W.
Moore, Mary A. Moore, Thompson B. Moore, William T Moores, Mahlon C .. Moran, Patrick ..
Morehouse, Stephen B .. Morgan, David C
Morgan, Mary. Morley, Mary Morris, James . Morrison, Ann M .. Morrison, Frances K. Morrison, John C.......... Morrow, Sarah E .. Mosgrove, John Mosier, Alfred N Mote, Joseph.. Moulton, Amos . Moulton, Linda F Mulholland, Andrew Mull, John T... Munson, Mary A Murdock, Alexander.
Murphy, Henry E .. Murphy, John' Murphy, John Murphy, Mary Murphy, Michael . Murphy, Pauline Lowe
Murray, Angeline . Musgrove, Richard W Myers, George W. Myers, James S Neary, Anna A. Negley, Grace A. Nelson, Thomas L. Newcomb, Mary C. Newman, Colmore L. Newman, David J Nichol, William.. Nichols, Isaac J Nichols, Mary ..
VOL XXXII , PT 2- -60

INDEX .

Page.
1528 1583 1274 1516 1325 1666 1421 1564 1684 1596 1471 1562 1487 1244 1542 1361 1416 1300 1317 1267 1706 1341 1301 1403 1599 1692 1632 1357 1550 1298 1524 1339 1717 1285 1367 1736 1581 1324 1713 1272 1594 1294 1252 1569 1736 1285 1512 1432 1693 1254 1554 1535 1502 1416 1451 1595 1719 1743 1268 1275 1239 1328 1461 1572 1617 1391 1256 1534 1517 1565 1735 1625

Pensions- Continued. increasedNichuals, Richard P Nickerson, Orson .. Noakes, Milton .. Noble, Eliza J. Noel, Matthew B Nordstrom, Marie W Norris, Cyrus B Norris, Peter T. Northway, Samuel N Norton, Cyrus G Norton, Leonard A Norton, Milton C. Norton, William H
Noyes, Eliphlet Noyes, Mary A. Nudd, Warren B
Nunez, Joseph A Nuttle, David T Oakley, Ebenezer W. Odell, Cyrus
Olcott, Benjamin F. Olmstead, Jonas . Olney, Frank A Olson, Charles .. O'Neal, Weden.. O'Neil, James O'Rourke, John
Orwan, Fanny B Osborn, Margaret A Osborn, Orlando S .. Osterhaus, Peter J. Oulman, Eugene J. Overman, William J Owens, Thomas M.. Pace, James W Packard, Helen N Palmer, Charles D. Palmer, Elizabeth Palmer, Regina F. Parcher, Othniel P. Pardee, Susan M.. Parfitt, Thomas .. Park, Abraham .
Parker, George W Parker, Susan Parmelee, Leander . Partridge, Almond . Patterson, Austin H Patterson, George . Patton, James F Paul, Katharine Rains Peabody, Gustavus W. Peabody, Thomas E Peale, Franklin . Pearson, Francis . Peck, Jesse M. Peck, Oscar M.. Peddycoard, Levi H Pennel, Andrew J Penrose, Clara A.
Pensinger, Henry . Perkins, Arthur H. Perkins, Calvin N Perkins, Charles A. Perkins, Gustavus S
Perkins, Napoleon B. Perrine, Inez E.. Perry, Christopher C. Petee, David Peterman, John P Peterson, Bowman H Peterson, John ..

2177
Page.
1356 1680 1590 1353 1519 1306 1694 1478 1724 1570 1660 1735 1385 1430 1683 1384 1307 1543 1500 1250 1728 1574 1668 1482 1608 1665 1373 1696 1582 1667 1462 1326 1320 1533 1708 1593 1418 1643 1594 1688 1257 1619 1565 1374 1554 1330 1561 1681 1260 1420 1449 1641 1634 1733 1274 1482 1717 1571 1658 1302 1705 1410 1329 1352 1626 1244 1382 1408 1254 1586 1655 1348

2178
Pensions- Continued. increasedPeterson, William T. Pettee, Abner J Pettee, James C. Pettis, Charles E
Pettit, Mary E. Peyton, Phoebe L.. Pfeiffer, Emil Phelps, Susan A. Philip, Josefa T. Phillips, Albert H. Phillips, Kate O .. Phillips, Mary E Phillips, William Phipps, Isaac Pickard, John E .. Picking, Laura S Pierce, William H. Pierce, Winfield .. Piety, Winfield S. Pinkham, Charles L. Pinkham, Eri W Pinn, Robert A. Plummer, Warren C. Pleasant, Thomas J. Pollock, David Pool, Francis W
Poole, Mary Etna Poor, James W. Porter, Walter A Posey, Henry M Post, John P..
Potter, Wesley S .. Potts, Eli Poutney, Peter . Power, Aurelia M Pratt, Gustavus C
Prentice, Joseph R Prescott, Elizabeth K. Presley, Mabery H Price, James T .. Prink, Oscar H.
Purington, Mary L Radcliffe, Samuel J. Rader, Michael.. Rafferty, Rosetta E. Railey, Anthony J Rand, Charles F. Randolph, Rebecca . Rapple, John Raulett, John S Ray, Andrew Raymond, William R. Read, Grace M .. Reagan, Penrose W. Reams, Uriah . Reaver, Maggie L Reed, Emily Lawrence . Reed, Oscar. Reep, John Rees, John J. Reeves, Andrew J
Reger, Henry Loor Reilly, Frances M Remington, William J Remson, Elbert N. Revley, John
Reynolds, Henry P. Reynolds, Hugh J. Rhenby, William Rhoades, Jennie .. Rhodabeck, Jesse C Rhodes, Isaac . Rhodes, William P

INDEX .

Page.
1399 1385 1415 1480 1358 1350 1558 1498 1238 1569 1494 1671 1427 1377 1706 1673 1273 1700 1574 1694 1433 1401 1499 1510 1245 1367 1436 1508 1740 1589 1662 1572 1710 1532 1621 1426 1636 1307 1560 1754 1665 1573 1685 1620 1695 1684 1387 1729 1253 1334 1413 1468 1541 1271 1336 1465 1758 1247 1322 1576 1584 1462 1242 1533 1424 1472 1640 1629 1283 1695 1419 1523 1707

Pensions- Continued . increasedRibble, Cornelia S. Rice Ellen W Rich, Lizzie I Richards, Jacob E. Richardson, Horace L Richardson, Hugh R Richardson, Loren S. Richardson, William W. Rickards, Eliza A Rider, John Q. A. Ridinger, Daniel Rigg, Jarrot F. Rightmire, William H. Ripley, Allen M.. Ritchie, William F Rittenhouse, Charles A Roath, James W Roberts, Leroy. Roberts, Pauline M.. Robertson, John A Robertson, Joseph W. Robinson, John . Robinson, John S. Robinson, Myra W Robinson, Thomas W. Robson, John H .. Rogers, Frederick E Ropes, Sarah E .. Rorer, Helen V Rose, Charles W Rose, Daniel T. Rosenbarger, Elizabeth . Ross, Lewis F. Rotan, John A. Rouch, Peter B Rowan, Thomas S. Rowe, Louis W. Rowe, William B. Ruckle, Jennie C .. Runnebaum, Henry
Runnels, Henry . Russell, Benjamin . Russell, Catharine A. Russell, Isaac F
Russell, Mary E. Sabin, George G. Saint Clair, Hannibal C. Salomon, Henriette . Salsbury, Lester . Samelsberger, Michael . Sanders, John G Sands, William .. Sandsbury, John R. Sare, John A..
Sargent, Benjamin G. Sauls, Thomas E. Saunders, Zachariah R. Sautter, John C. Scannell, James . Scherzer, Charles W. Schill, August .. Schofield, Carrie M .. Schott, William P. Schram, Daniel Shroeder, Henry B Schwartz, Gustav . Scott, Albert M Scott, Alexander Scott, Charles A .. Scott, Edward B Scott, Frances E. Scott, Francis Scott, Lucinda C

Page.
1703 1470 1531 1709 1433 1268 1248 1470 1543 1540 1461 1672 1406 1568 1747 1704 1394 1575 1365 1481 1552 1548 1386 1333 1275 1737 1301 1580 1318 1519 1241 1633 1523 1518 1727 1381 1742 1336 1299 1373 1470 1426 1677 1614 1682 1451 1399 1263 1597 1299 1397 1725 1526 1583 1265 1327 1357 1752 1384 1661 1437 1483 1474 1283 1245 1259 1539 1376 1502 1259 1344 1451 1265

Pensions-Continued. increasedScott, Luther
Scott, Mary Scott, Mary A. E Scott, Robert M. Scott, William H. H. Scovell, Albert D.. Scramlin, Harman . Scroggs, Robert G Seaman, Frank .. Seamonds, Sanders R. Sears, Mary Ann Seely, Augusta W Seithen, Joseph Seitz, John A. M Sellers, Alfred J Sells, Orange Seydel, John M Shafer, Frederick . Shaffer, Sophie S Shaffer, William H Shaner, Solomon S .. Shanks, Flavius Shattuck, Alice De K
Shattuck, Cynthia J Shaw, Elizabeth A. Shaw, George W Shaw, William H. Shearer, Benjamin F. Sheldon, Charles F Sheldon, William ..
Sheridan, Thomas Sherry, Thomas Shick, Pierson L.. Shilling, Emma F Shirar, Charles . Shoenecker, Albertine Shovar, Frederick Shreeves, Abraham . Shurtleff, Julia B. Sickels, Henry Siegfried, Ida R Sigfried, Elizabeth P. Simmons, Ransom. Simmons, William J Simpson, Elias Sims, Daniel .. Sims, Florian V Sims, James D.
Singley, Mary E. Skinner, George . Skinner, Samuel W Slack, John W Slaughter, Linda W. Slawson, Eben Slocum, Delia E. Slocum, Jonathan H.
Small, Baley W Smith, Andrew C. Smith, Charles F Smith, Clara E Smith, Eunice A. Smith, George H Smith, George M Smith, Henry I. Smith, Jacob. Smith, James Smith, James C. G Smith, John Smith, John Smith, John A Smith, John H Smith, John H
Smith, Leroy S.

INDEX .

Page.
1637 1440 1514 1250 1303 1305 1496 1475 1292 1509 1679 1629 1374 1623 1596 1677 1354 1293 1689 1408 1636 1655 1307 1468 1306 1499 1661 1471 1691 1421 1533 1620 1477 1462 1756 1349 1633 1564 1484 1674 1259 1397 1500 1361 1736 1373 1473 1551 1315 1741 1290 1674 1459 1700 1421 1550 1499 1670 1417 1757 1387 1346 1732 1456 1483 1255 1395 1436 1638 1615 1475 1744 1329

Pensions- Continued . increased-
Smith, Lucy G Smith, Lucy W. Smith, Matilda Smith, Moses . Smith, Nicolas Smith, Richard C. Smith, Samuel S .. Smith, Thomas L.. Smith, Thomas P. Smith, William D Smithson, William W Smoot, Otillia M. Smyth, Marie J Snee, Nathan W. Snodgrass, John . Snyder, Adrian M. Snyder, Franklin . Snyder, William H. Spalding, John A. Spaulding, Belle L .. Spencer, James M Sperry, Mary Ann E. Sprague, Charles .. Spring, Henry E. Springer, Cornelius Spurling, Andrew B Squires, Phineas L.. Stackpole, Josiah .. Stadtmueller, Maria V.
Staff, Henry . Stafford, Frank . Stanley, Edgar A. Stanley, John M. Stanley, William F Stanton, Marietta Elizabeth Starkey, Elmer J. Starrat, Thomas Stearns, Elias P Steele, Elizabeth
Steifenhofer, Albert H. Stephens, Robert E. Stevens, Elmer L. Stewart, Jennett . Stewart, Robert Stiles, Albion P Stilwell, Julia Stimson, Monora Stites, William D ..
Stockbridge, Napoleon B.. Stockings, Mary E.. Stone, Caroline M Stone, Charles H Stone, George H Stonesifer, Joseph Story, Caleb W.
Stotsenburg, Mary L. Stott, George W. Stotts, Silas Stowers, Thomas J Stran, Thomas V Straub, Edward Strayer, Michael K Strong, Charles .. Strong, Robert R. Strong, Silas D Strope, William M. Stuber, Adam . Sullinger, Alexander T. Sullivan, John D Sullivan, Michael O. Swan, Thomas .. Sweatt, Charles L. Swett, Stephen R.

2179
Page.
1546 1304 1720 1265 1576 1310 1560 1672 1363 1530 1650 1334 1304 1342 1634 1530 1456 1514 1702 1704 1591 1364 1520 1578 1267 1344 1667 1597 1519 1718 1743 1478 1617 1556 1418 1280 1580 1701 1346 1447 1355 1248 1540 1586 1403 1712 1532 1459 1684 1344 1537 1323 1596 1535 1405 1747 1577 1496 1297 1254 1780 1721 1738 1409 1380 1271 1758 1753 1528 1727 1473 1261 1691

2180
Pensions-Continued . increased-
Talbott, Mary A. Tallman, Emily J Tanner, William D Tarbox, Asa .. Tate, Mary. Tattersall, Edward Taylor, Alexander H Taylor, Elisha B.. Taylor, Franklin
Taylor, Henry.. Taylor, Henry M. Taylor, James B.. Taylor, Mary. Taylor, William G. Tebbetts, Walter G Temple, William H.
Terrill, Virginia .. Thatcher, Thomas Thayer, Newton .. Thomas, Charles W. Thomas, Daniel
Thomas, Henry Thomas, Hiram H. Thomas, James M Thomas, James P. Thomas, William H Thomas, Willie .. Thompson, Albert W Thompson, Daniel F. Thompson, Edward . Thompson, Elizabeth . Thompson, Ervin . Thompson, Francis M.
Thompson, George Thompson, George K Thompson, George W. Thompson, Hiram S Thompson, Isabella H Thompson, James Thompson, John D Thompson, Jonathan O Thompson, Ole ......... Thompson, Samuel L Thompson, William Thompson, William R Tillinghast, Jane A
Tillman, George C. Tillson, Ann E. Titus, Eli Tod, Margaret S. Todd , James
Todd, Stephen B Tolles, David N Tompkins, Jane E. Topliff, Austin L .. Topper, David .... Towle, Daniel G. Tracy, Henry N Tracy, Robert A. Transue, Andrew Y. Travis, James M.. Travis, John P Trent, Lysander D.. Tridel, Bridget Agnes . Trist, Richard . Trites, William H
Trout, Henry C Trowbridge, Ada Trundy, Carleton A Tryon, Henry W. Tuerck, Herman Tufford, Isaiah .. Tuper, Peter

INDEX.

Page.
1759 1313 1438 1615 1394 1739 1723 1257 1301 1639 1330 1683 1241 1375 1682 1422 1261 1351 1756 1319 1497 1587 1467 1563 1556 1458 1520 1750 1409 1329 1666 1627 1254 1591 1411 1250 1616 1407 1522 1558 1434 1532 1681 1596 1594 1625 1444 1517 1638 1488 1319 1486 1665 1308 1687 1441 1665 1270 1755 1322 1708 1662 1543 1615 1369 1753 1628 1424 1283 1460 1632 1330 1616

Pensions - Continued . increasedTurner, Elizabeth A Turner, Enos .... Turner, Lucy A Turner, William Y Tuttle, Walter C..
Twycross, Joseph .. Tyler, Rollin ... Underwood, William R Utter, Thomas D. Vale, John ... Vallet, Jedediah S .. Van Deusen, George H Van Eaton, Hannah A Van Houten, Clayton P. Van Matre, James K
Van Nordstrand, Lott .. Van Riper, William K. Van Sickell, Caleb C .. Van Tassell, Oscar.. Van Vliet, Alfred H Van Wie, Daniel Van Wormer, Mary A Van Zant, James Vandemark, Sarah . Vermillion, Marcus L.. Vickers, David .. Victor, Frances Fuller Vincent, Elizabeth C.
Volkmar, Susan A. Vore, Harrison C .. Wagner, Ernest Wagner, Jennie M.. Wainwright, Charles S. Walbert, Jonathan Walck, Samuel S. Walcott, Georgie Josephine Walker, Benjamin W Walker, Eliza A. Walker, Fletcher J Walker, James H. Walker, Mary V Wall, Elizabeth Wallace, James E. Wallace, Kephart . Wallace, Lymus Wallace, William J Walsh, Edward... Ward, Louise .. Wardwell, David K. Warner, William Warren, Horatio N. Warren, Sarah J Washburn, Charles C Washburn, John .. Watkins, Richard G Watts, James H Weaver, Henry . Weaver, Joshua Webb, Charles H Weeks, Lorenzo Weidel, Jacob . Weimar, Friedrich . Welch, James . Welch, Jane C .. Wellman, Reuben Wells, Milton D Wells, Orrin J. Wende, Eliza . Wertz, George W West, Callie . West, Waity Westbrook, Joseph Weyeneth, Rudolph B

Page.
1491 1651 1527 1654 1422 1673 1312 1281 1468 1288 1256 1700 1434 1491 1516 1735 1448 1698 1523 1335 1720 1309 1448 1375 1730 1520 1300 1391 1404 1358 1363 1434 1642 1514 1525 1327 1642 1562 1560 1388 1331 1485 1707 1280 1748 1287 1630 1350 1716 1480 1334 1672 1445 1447 1476 1545 1521 1461 1529 1410 1400 1439 1432 1639 1354 1740 1495 1706 1404 1726 1384 1586 1637

Pensions- Continued. increasedWhalen, John . Wheeler, Alfred M. Wheeler, Henry G Wheeler, John H. Wheeler, John M. Wheeler, William Wheeler, William H. Whitbeck, Horatio N. Whitcher, Selden E Whitcomb, Moses Whitcomb, Sarah A White, Benjamin . White, Dorothy S White, Enoch A.. White, George White, George W White, James M. White, John E. White, William H. Whitlock, William Whitman, John A. Whitney, Cornelia F. Whitney, Hattie M. Whittier, Albert S. Whitty, Elizabeth . Whitworth, Herbert . Wickham, Charles H Wight, Collins W Wilcox, John B Wilcox, Lewis E Wilcox, William F
Wiley, Aquila ... Wilkins, Elvira L Wilkinson, Thomas .. Willard, James .. Willey, Frederick W Williams, Franklin . Williams, Hamline B Williams, Henry E. Williams, John C Williams, Lawson Williams, Mary Williams, Remembrance J Williams, Russel A. Wilson, Charles S Wilson, Evaline . Wilson, Jackson L.. Wilson, James J.. Wilson, James R Wilson, Joseph A Wilson , Maria J Wilson, Thomas B. Winfrey, Thomas J Wingfield, Charles B Winks, Nathaniel A Winslow, Eben C Winslow, Levi H.
Wolcott, Winthrop W Wolfe, John J. Wood, William H Wood, Ziba S Woods, Abel .
Woodward, Elijah A Woodward, James D Worden, Asa ... Worden, Mary Louise Worthen, Helen M Wright, Cornelia E. Wright, Frederick . Wright, John Wright, John Wright, John A. Wright, John C

INDEX .

2181

Page.
1425 1389 1583 1741 1466 1347 1423 1500 1290 1623 1564 1547 1352 1266 1732

Pensions- Continued . increasedWright, Oliver G. Wyman, Oliver K Yakey, David C .. Yemans. Sarah E.. Young, Aaron .. Young, Edwin Young, George H Young, James S Young, James W. Young, Merritt ..
Young, S. Agnes .. Young, Thomas Youngs, George W. Zickerick, William Ziegenfuss, Theresia

Page.
1667 1430 1584 1622 1623 1469 1537 1511 1530 1650 1376 1340 1430 1589 1244

1486 1669 1334 1442
1741 1711

Pensions, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks, etc .. 159, 894

extra copies of annual report, 1901 , to be

printed

738

Pentwater, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 344

1516 Pepper, Helen L. (widow) ,

1444 pension .

1251

1317 Perique Tobacco,

1467 sales permitted from one manufacturer to

1676

another, or for export, without tax . 714

1281 Perishable Property, D. C.,

1752 limit of power of justice of peace.to sell, for

1252

debts due carriers ...

534

1592 Perjury,

1724 false testimony before immigration officers

1311

punishable as

1219

1267 Perjury, D. C. ,

1509 punishment for false swearing before Com-

1250

missioners

591

1568 Perkins, Arthur H.,

1740 pension increased .

1410

1572 Perkins, Calvin N. ,

1402 pension increased ..

1429

1737 Perkins, Charles A. ,

1545 pension increased .

1352

1622 Perkins, Gustavus S.,

1547 pension increased ..

1626

1362 Perkins, Napoleon B.,

1343 pension increased ..

1244

1343 Perkins, Stover,

1681 payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

1557

ministrator of

227

1375 Perkins , Thomas,

1605 payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

1393

ministrator of

228

1618 Perkins, Thomas,

1731 payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

1346

ecutor of .

232

1675 Pernambuco, Brazil,

1389 appropriation for consul at

1318

for clerk hire ...

82, 814 86, 818

1635 Perpetuities, D. C.,

1376 Code provision prohibiting, in wills re-

1398

pealed .

545

1267 Perquimans River, N. C.,

1624 1674

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

1257 Perrine, Inez E. ( widow),

1522 pension increased ....

1382

1307 Perris, Cal. , 1432 appropriation for Indian school ......................... 271

1300 1367

for Indian pupils; consolidated with

Riverside school .

1005

1558 Perry, Christopher C.,

1597 pension increased ...

1408

1536 Perry, Reuben,

1724 , appropriation for payment to ..

1001

2182

INDEX .

Persia,

Page.

appropriation for minister resident and

consul-general ...

72, 808

madeavailablefor envoy extraordinary

and minister plenipotentiary

1033

for interpreter to legation ..

78, 809

Personal Adornment Articles, D. C. ,

exempt from personal tax..

620

Personal Property,

convention with Guatemala, as to tenure,

etc. , of..

1944

supplementary convention with Great

Britain, as to tenure of...

1914

Personal Property, D. C. (see also Taxation,

D. C. ),

no distinction between whole and half

blood in descent of..

530

provisions of Code as to estates applicable

generally to ....

538

tax on

618

Personal-Tax Appraisers, D. C. ( see also Taxa-

tion, D. C. ) ,

appointment of board ; qualifications ..... 617

duties of

617

appropriation for

622

Personal Taxes, D. C.,

appropriation for assistant assessors , etc .. 957

for expenses of collecting ..

622, 961

for expenses of collecting overdue ..

595

deficiency appropriation for temporary

clerks ..

1042

Perth Amboy, N. J.,

construction of public building author-

ized; nominal site .

317

appropriation for ..

426, 1088

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1203

Peru,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation...

77,808

Perveil, Leighton M. , alias Charles H. Hunt,

pension ..

1744

Peshtigo Reef, Wis. ,

appropriation for light-vessel .....

431

Petaluma Creek, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of....... 368

Petee, David,

pension increased .

1254

Peterman, John P.,

pension increased .

1586

Peters, Franz,

payment to

490

Peters, J. R.,

payment to..

487

Peters, Mary A. (widow),

pension

1515

Peterson, Bowman H. ,

pension increased .

1655

Peterson, John, pension increased .
Peterson, William T. , pension increased ..

1348 1399

Petit Larceny, D. C.,

restitution of value of property

535

Petoskey, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 344

Petroleum Lands,

entries for, in the Philippines .....

702

Pettee, Abner J.,

pension increased .

1385

Pettee James C.,

pension increased .

1415

Pettigrew, Frederick W. ,

deficiency appropriation for estate of..... 573

Pettingel, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Pettis, Charles E.,

Page.

pension increased ..

1480

Pettit and Bayard,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 218, 222,226
Pettit, Charles,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

999

Pettit, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ....

1358

Pewitt, W. P.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

215

Peyton, Phoebe L. (widow),

pension increased ..

1350

Pfeiffer, Emil,

pension increased ..

1558

Pflueger, Catherine (widow) ,

pension .

1255

Phelps, Susan A. ( widow) ,

pension increased ...

1498

Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Rail-

road Company (see also Union Rail-

road Station , D. C. ) ,

provisions for new terminal station, etc.,

Washington, D. C .....

909

appropriation for relinquishing use of Mall,

relocating tracks, etc ....

916

Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice; salaries ..

144, 879

for mint at, salaries .

146,880

for wages and contingent expenses ... 146,880

for improving Delaware River to Dela-

ware Bay

350

for revenue cutter..

435, 1097

for naval home ...

665, 1179

for lookouts to protect mail in post-office . 1090

limit of cost increased, mint ..

315

appropriation for ...

425

one appraiser at port ; salary increased .. 715

special examiner of drugs, etc.; salary in-

creased

730

terms of district court .

549

Philip, Josefa T. ( widow) ,

pension increased..

1238

Philippine Coinage (see also Coinage, Philip-

pine ) ,

gold peso to be unit of value ; weight and

fineness

952

gold coins of the United States to be legal

tender for all debts ; rate ..

952

silver peso to be coined ; weight and fine-

ness

953

a legal tender except by contract other-

wise .

953

payment of debts prior to December 31,

1903 .

953

subsidiary coins; weight increased .

953

pesos, etc. , to be coined from bullion under

approval of Secretary of War .......... 953

recoinage from silver received by the

treasury

953

limitation on coinage, etc

953

certificates of indebtedness authorized to

maintain parity of silver and gold

pesos

953

denomination, amount authorized, etc.. 953

exempt from taxes; exclusive use of pro-

ceeds

954

temporary receiving of Mexican and Span-

ish silver..

954

issue of certificates on deposit of standard

silver pesos; properties of certifi-

cates..

954

INDEX.

2183

Philippine Coinage-Continued. purchase of silver authorized
devices and inscriptions prescribed sovereignty of United States to be expressed
designs, etc. , for notes and certificates to be made in Treasury Department ..
recoinage of Filipino dollars, and former
provision for legal tender repealed . Philippine Commission (see also Philippine
Islands, Civil Government in the) , action ofPresident creating, etc. , approved. regulations for mining locations and pat-
ents to enforce registration of Chinese laborers .

Page. 954 954 954 954 955
691 700 177

to make annual reports of receipts and expenditures to Secretary of War .... 712

Philippine Constabulary,

detail of army officers for service with ... 783

rank while so serving ...

783

difference in pay, etc. , to, paid from

Philippine treasury

783

assistance of Philippine scouts; command-

ing officer..

783

Philippine Islands,

appropriation for land, etc. , military post,

Manila ...

465, 1129

for arrears of pay, etc. , Army in ..

473

for shelter, etc. , for the Army in the ;

report

516, 938

for relief of distress in.

1129

deficiency appropriation for military post,

Manila ...

12, 1045

for gunboats, etc. , sold to Navy .

15

for clerks, etc. , statement of expendi-

tures

563

additional sergeants, Signal Corps, for serv-

ice in .

509

articles from United States to pay tariff of

Commission ..

54

articles to United States from, subject to

regular customs duties .

54

reduction of 75 per cent on Philippine

products ..

54

export taxes to be deducted

54

on free list exempted from export tax in

Philippines

54

tonnage tax on foreign vessels from

54

foreign vessels may carry freight and pas-

sengers until July 1 , 1904 .

54

licenses to harbor vessels ..

54

duties, etc. , of Philippine trade to be used



for benefit of Philippines..

54

duties based on weight to be calculated at

time of entry .

articles for, exempted from internal-revenue tax, etc ..

drawbacks, etc. , on articles exported to .. taxes paid on exempted articles since No-

vember 15, 1901 , to be refunded .......

appropriation for . drawback on materials used in articles

shipped to

articles reexported to .

55

customs administration and tariff laws ap-

plicable to articles from .

evidence necessary to convict for treason .. 55

balance of appropriations for Twelfth Census made available for census of....... 1059

deeds before notaries, valid as to lands in

District of Columbia and Territories. 88

certificate of attorney-general ...............

88

detail of army officers for constabulary .

783

assistance of Philippine scouts

783

extradition laws made applicable to...

806

Philippine Islands- Continued.

Page.

funds received from military stores, to be

deposited in the Treasury.

563

gazetteer of, ordered printed ..

1765

proclamation granting amnesty to insur-

rectionists in

2014

property rights of governments not af-

fected

2015

refund of duties on goods from, between April 11 , 1899, and March 8, 1902 .. 1224

registration of Chinese laborers in, to be

made .

177

return requested from President of bill re-

lating to execution of deeds in, and

Porto Rico, of lands in the District . 1765

trade statistics of commerce with, required 172

unit of value to be the gold peso ; weight

and fineness ..

952

gold coins of United States to be a legal

tender; rate ....

952

silver coinage provisions

710, 953

Philippine Islands, Civil Government in the,

action of President creating Commission

for, ratified, etc

691

effect and title of laws enacted by Philip-

pine Commission

691

Constitution and United States laws not

applicable

692

appointment of executive officers .

692

customs duties in force, approved ...

692

commercial intercourse among the islands

during hostilities

692

citizenship qualifications..

692

rights of person and property stated

692

census to be taken after insurrection ceases 693

inquiries; aid of Census Bureau

693

election of Philippine assembly .

693

constitution of legislature; powers

694

Philippine Commission ...

694

Philippine assembly, apportionment to

provinces

694

annual sessions

694

payment of expenses on failure to make

necessary appropriations

694

special sessions

694

powers and duties of assembly ..

694

two resident commissioners to the United

States; term, etc ....

694

salary from United States; eligibility . 694

jurisdiction of supreme court and courts of

first instance

695

municipal courts ..

695

appointment of judges; admiralty juris-

diction .

695

jurisdiction of Supreme Court of United

States ..

695

commerce and navigation provisions

695

property acquired from Spain transferred

to .

695

exception, military, etc. , reservations

695

public lands, classification and sale, etc.;

homesteads ..

695

perfecting Spanish titles; patents to occu-

pants

696

sales of agricultural lands ; preferences,

etc ...

696

special timber regulations ..

696

water-supply regulations authorized ..

697

mineral lands reserved .......

697

all deposits open to exploration, etc. , by

citizens

697

discoveries on occupied but unpatented

agricultural lands .....

697

regulations for locating claims .

697

extent of claim ; prior holders

698

2184

INDEX .

Philippine Islands, Civil Government-Cont'd .
mineral lands; recording applications, etc. limit of one claim to a holder .. abandonment of the claims .. proofs of citizenship of locators . annual labor assessment required; delinquencies ....
issue of patents ; application , etc. proceedings by adverse claimants .
description of claims on surveyed lands on unsurveyed lands ...
building stone entries ... petroleum, etc. , land entries . placer mineral claims, maximum locations
allowed associations ... to individual claimants ..
location ; surveys, etc deputy mineral surveyors authorized ;
charges mineral lands, proof and testimony
patents of nonmineral lands for milling, etc
patents to contain conditions for working, etc. , of mines
vested water rights protected . all patents subject to ...
land districts authorized ; officers . coal-land entries ; extent and price ..
preference rights ; declaratory statement . limit to entries; conflicting claims saline lands, sale of and price for mineral lands reserved from grants to aid
public works .... prior mining concessions not affected ;
boundaries to be marked .......

Page. 699 699 700 700
700 700 701 702 702 702 702
702 703 703
703 703
704
704 704 704 704 704 705 705 705
706
706

subsequent mining rights subject to this

law ...

706

proceedings for canceling Spanish conces-

sions

706

authority to acquire, etc., real and per-

sonal property.

706

from religious orders, etc ..

706

bond issue to provide funds; interest,

etc

706

disposition of proceeds

707

disposition of property acquired; pay-

ments ...

707

bond issue for municipal public works

707

interest; exempt from taxes

707

use of funds; taxes to pay interest, etc. 708

bond issue by Manila for sewers and water

supply .

708

limit; interest; exempt from taxes .

708

use of funds; taxes to pay interest, etc. 708

franchises, concessions, etc. , authorized .. 709

payment for private property ..

709

subject to amendment, etc. , by Con-

gress ...

709

general provisions for corporations ..

709

slave labor prohibited; penalty ...

709

real estate, corporations not allowed to

deal in...

709

restriction on holdings by corporations . 709

combination of corporations forbidden . 709 purchase permitted to secure loans..... 709

mint at Manila, and coinage laws author-

ized

710

laws of United States applicable .

710

silver coins authorized ; denomination,

weight, and fineness

710

purchase of bullion ; recoinage of Fili-

pino coins...

710

legal- tender limit .

710

minor coins authorized; denomination ,

weight, composition

710

Philippine Islands, Civil Government-Cont'd . minor coins, purchase of metal for; seigniorage coinage permitted at United States mints. devices, etc., on coins to express sovereignty of United States .. redemption, reissue, etc. , of coins ... laws of United States applicable to trade with Philippines; shipping ........... customs duties; restriction

Page.
710 710
711 711
711 711

merchant seamen; substitution of cus-

toms for consular officers .....

711

transportation of passengers on ships;

quarantine, etc

711

transit of imported merchandise ..

711

former laws continued ; act not applicable

to Guam, etc ..

711

equivalent rates of money in circulation may be established every ten days. 711

treasury, etc., to be depositories of United

States public moneys

711

security for safe-keeping, etc

711

laws to be reported to Congress .

712

power to annul, reserved....

712

annual report of receipts and expenditures to be made to Secretary of War.... 712

Bureau of Insular Affairs, War Depart-

ment, established ; duties ..

712

detail of chief of bureau; to rank, etc. ,

as colonel

713

change in enrollment of, directed

1772

Philippine Legislature,

provisions for forming .

693

Philippine Scouts,

appropriation for pay of officers and en-

listed men

512, 934

credit to army enlisted men for service as

officers of

934

ordered to assist constabulary, to beunder

army officers

783

Phillips, Albert H. ,

pension increased ..

1569

Phillips, Kate O. (widow),

pension increased..

1494

Phillips, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1671

Phillips, William,

pension increased .

1427

Phipps, Isaac,

pension increased ..

1377

Phoenix, Ariz., appropriation for Indian school ....... 271 , 1004 deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 23
Phoenix Insurance Company, New York,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlements .

1079

Phoenix Insurance Company, Saint Louis, Mo.,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement

1078

Phosphates, Report on,

appropriation for preparation of ....................... 455

Phylloxera, etc.,

appropriation for studying nature of...... 1153

Pickard, C. R.,

deficiency appropriation for balance due .. 1064

Pickard, John E.,

pension increased ..

1706

Picking, Laura S. (widow),

pension increased...

1573

Pickman, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of..

229

Pickman, Dudley L.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

ecutor of ..

227

INDEX .

2185

Picnic Grounds, etc. , D. C., license tax on lessees, etc ..
Piedras Blancas, Cal.,
appropriation for light-keeper's dwelling, etc ..

Page. 626
1093

Pierce, William H. ,

pension increased .

1273

Pierce, Winfield,

pension increased ..

1700

Pierre, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 272 , 1004

bridge authorized across Missouri River

at

658

purchase of public building site author-

ized

320

appropriation for

429

construction authorized of public building

at

1207

deficiency appropriation for. terms of court

1038 197

Piety, Winfield S.,

pension increased .

1574

"Pilgrim," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.

219

Pike, Luther H.,

deficiency appropriation for legal repre-

sentatives of..

584

Pilot Chart, North Pacific Ocean,

appropriation for expenses of monthly .. 154, 888

Pima Agency, Ariz., appropriation for Indian agent at for support, etc. , of Indians of
for flour mill

246 992 260, 996

for temporary employment, etc. , of In-

dians of..

262

Pinckard, James S., right of United States to lands in Montgomery, Ala. , released to, as trustee . 787

Pine Bluff, Ark. , deficiency appropriation for public building site... purchase of public building site authorized

1039 1208

Pine Lake, Mich., appropriation for improvement of entrance

to ..

344

Pine Lands, Minn.,

survey, etc.; sale of timber

' 400

reservation of forestry lands

402

Pine Ridge Agency, S. Dak. , appropriation for Indian agent at

246, 983

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak., appropriation for survey, etc

262,997

deficiency appropriation for surveying .... Pinkham, Charles L. ,
pension increased
Pinkham, Eri W., pension increased .

1074 1694 1433

Pinn, Robert A. , pension increased .
Pinn, William, payment to..
Pinney, Annie P. (widow) ,
pension . Pious Fund of the Californias,
agreement with Mexico for arbitration of.

1401 490 1670 1916

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

arbitration

552

Piper, Aden, Goodall Company, deficiency appropriation for damages ..... 1053

Piper, Rebecca (mother),

pension .

1605

Pipestone, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 272 , 1004

Pittsburg and Mansfield Railroad Company, Page.

may reduce height of bridge across Monon-

gahela River, Pittsburg, Pa....

75

Pittsburg, Carnegie and Western Railroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Allegheny River at Pittsburg,

Pa ..

837

Pittsburg, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 335

for marine hospital

423

bridge authorized across Allegheny River

at

837

height may be reduced of bridge across Monongahela River at
marine hospital established .. contracts authorized .
transfer of arsenal land for marine-hospital site
Piute Indian Reservation, Nev.,

75 93 423
1089

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indi-

ans of...

258, 993

Placer Claims,

regulations for locating, in the Philip-

pines

702

Plans for Public Buildings, appropriation for

423, 1091

deficiency appropriation for

7

paper, supplies, etc. , to be paid for from

amount for buildings ...

1091

Plant Industry Bureau, Department of Agri-

culture,

appropriation for salaries.......

290, 1152

for general expenses; vegetable pathol-

ogy and physiology

291 , 1152

pomological

291 , 1153

botanical....

292, 1153

grass and forage plant.

292, 1154

for experimental gardenand grounds . 293, 1154

for farm , Arlington, Va .

293, 1155

ground set apart .

293

for tea-culture investigations

293, 1155

for seed purchase and distribution ... 293, 1155

for investigating domestic sugar produc-

tion

295 , 1156

Plantation Creek, Ga.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Platt, Robert,

may be appointed commander on retired

list, Navy

796

Plattsburg, N. Y. ,

225

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 330

Plattsmouth, Nebr., bridge authorized across Missouri River at 496

Plattsmouth Pontoon Bridge Company,

may bridge Missouri River

496

Plauen, Germany, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Play Grounds, Washington, D. C.,

use of Monument grounds for, permitted . 1122

Pleadings, D. C.,

uniting of torts and contracts in the same

declaration ....

543

denial of plaintiff's official character with-

out oath permitted ..

544

Pleadings in Bankruptcy,

time for, reduced

798

Pleasant, Thomas J.,

pension increased.

1510

Pleuro-Pneumonia,

powers to suppress, transferred to Secre-

tary of Agriculture ....

791

Plum Island, Wis.,

appropriation for cable life-saving station

to mainland ..

1096

2186

INDEX .

Plummer, Warren C. , pension increased ..

Page. 1499

Plymouth, Mass. , appropriation for improvement of harbor. 332
Pneumatic Gun Carriage and Power Company, proposition for settlement of contract ac-

cepted

308

Pneumatic Tubes, etc. , Postal Service,

appropriation for transmission of mail

by ..

... 114, 1172

contracts authorized ; expert commission . 114

limit of expenditures ..

114

Pocomoke River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 336

Poffenberger, Henry A.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Poindexter, Edward,

deficiency appropriation for expenses

570

Point au Pelee Passage, Lake Erie,

appropriation for light-vessel , maintenance 431 , 1095

Point Aux Barques, Mich.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Point Judith Pond, R. I. ,

examination of entrance to ..

333

Point Judith, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge..

333

Poiron, Lavinia F. (daughter) ,

pension ...

1692

Police Court, D. C. ,

appropriation for salaries ..

609, 974

for miscellaneous expenses ..

609, 974

deficiency appropriation for repairs

561

appointment of acting judge .

522

to receive no extra pay ..

609

fees of witnesses established .

561

judges to hold office until successors ap-

pointed

522

jurisdiction in cases where punishment is

only a fine ..

537

jurors, January, 1902, to be paid ..

561

Police, D. C.,

appropriation for extending patrol system . 601

for major, officers, etc

606, 971

for fuel, repairs, etc ...

606, 972

for contingent expenses; rent ..

606, 972

advances for detection of crime, etc .. 972

for new house, fifth precinct

607

for house of detention for women and

children

... 607,972

deficiency appropriation for house of de-

tention

560, 1043

for contingent expenses

561 , 1043

for expenses detention of women and

children

561

for maintaining order ..

561

for public-comfort stations

1043

for fuel

774

Political Offenses,

by aliens, not involving moral turpitude,

does not exclude admission ..

1214

Polk, Hon. R. K. , late a Representative in Con-
gress, deficiency appropriation for widow ...... 581

Pollard, Judson N.,

pension .

1561

Pollock, David,

pension increased.........

1245

Pollock, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of ..........

226

"Polly," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of

220

"Polly," Schooner, Ellms, Master,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

233

"Polly," Schooner, Shillaher, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of............

220

Polygamists,

admission of alien, excluded

1214

Pomeroy, Samuel W.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221 , 228, 231

Pomeroy, Samuel Wyllys,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

229

Pomological Investigations,
appropriation for expenses .. Ponca Indians,

291 , 1153

appropriation for support, etc. , of; distri- bution 256,992

Ponca, Pawnee, Otoe, and Oakland Agency, Okla. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at

246

Pond River, Ky.,

construction of dams, etc. , authorized .... 732

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 378

Pook, Ellen F. (widow),

pension ..

1551

Pool, Francis W.,

pension increased .

1367

Pool Rooms, D. C.,

minors not permitted in, connected with

barrooms

202

Poole, Benjamin R., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211
Poole, Frederick S.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

210

Poole, Mary Etna (widow),

pension increased...

1436

Poole, W. P.,

payment to.

491

Poor, D. C.,

appropriation for relief of the.................... 614,979

Poor, James W.,

pension increased ..

1508

Poor Suitors, D. C., discretion of court as to deposit of costs by. 527
Port au Prince,

appropriation for clerk hire, consulate-

general

86,818

Port Chester, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Port Clinton, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342

Port Hope, Ontario, appropriation for consul at .

85,817

Port Jefferson, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Port Limon, Costa Rica,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Port Louis, Mauritius, appropriation for consul at

83,816

Port Royal Naval Station, S. Ct,

report of Secretary on advisability of re-

moval, etc. , to be made......

675

Port Royal, S. C.,

preliminary examination to be made of

bar .

382

Port Sarnia, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

... 83, 816

Port Stanley, Falkland Islands, appropriation for consul at
Port Townsend, Wash.,

83, 816

appropriation for extra pay to collector,

Chinese exclusion

450, 1112

INDEX .

2187

Port Washington, Wis. ,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

384

Port Wing, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345

Portage Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge..

344

Portage River, Ohio, preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Portal, N. Dak.,

immediate transportation privileges ex-

tended to

780

made subport of entry

780

Porter,

internal revenue tax on, reduced ..........

96

Porter, D. S.,

deficiency appropriation for services .. 582 , 1068

Porter, Walter A.,

pension increased ...

1740

Portland General Electric Light Company,

examination of title, etc. , to waters of

Willamette River at falls ...

381

Portland, Me.,

appropriation for light-house, Ram Island

Ledge

430, 1091

for quarantine station .

1091

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208

Portland, Oreg.,

limit of cost increased, public building,

post-office and court-house...

314

appropriation for custom-house .

425, 1089 314

appropriation for.

425

for rent, etc. , temporary offices .

1089

Portland, Vancouver and Yakima Railway

Company, granted right of way, Vancouver Military

Reservation, Wash

1028

Porto Rico,

appropriation for resident commissioner

from .

149 , 883

for agricultural station

302, 1164

for light-houses, etc. for quarantine service for law library, district court

433, 1094 450, 1112
732

deficiency appropriation for traveling ex-

penses, commissioner from .......

1042

appointment of cadet to Military Academy from, authorized
midshipmen to be made from ..
citizens eligible for enlistment in Army claims for duties erroneously paid in, to be
brought in the Court of Claims payment of judgments authorized .. deeds before notaries, valid as to lands in
District of Columbia and Territories . certificate of attorney-general ................
lands, etc. , to be reserved for public uses . all others granted to government of Porto Rico

1011 1198 934
176 176
88 88 731
731

proclamation declaring organization of civil government and local taxation in .
establishing Luquillo Forest Reserve .. release to be given of all interest in lands,
etc., reserved.. legal or equitable rights not affected .... refund of duties on goods from, between
April 11 , 1899, and May 1 , 1900 .... report of commission on laws of, ordered
printed ...

1983 2029
731 732
1224
1765

Porto Rico-Continued.

Page.

return requested from President of bill re-

lating to execution ofdeeds in Philip-

pines and, of lands in the District .. 1765 trade statistics of commerce with, required . 172

traveling expenses allowed resident com-

missioner, term ...

732

Porto Rico Provisional Regiment,

appropriation for pay of officers and en-

listed men..

512, 934

credit to army enlisted men for service as

officers of

934

may be ordered for service outside of the

island

934

muster out of volunteer officers ; detail

from line...

934

Portraits, D. C.,

family, exempt from personal tax..

620

Ports of Entry and Delivery,

discontinued , Edenton, N. C

190

established, Elizabeth City, N. C

190

Naco, Ariz., subport .

484

Portal, N. Dak. , subport

780

Portsmouth, N. H.,

appropriation for public works, navy-yard . 671 , 1185

for naval prison

1185

for removing Hendersons Point, navy-

yard

672

Portsmouth, Va. , purchase of public-building site authorized 320

appropriation for .....

429

Portugal,

appropriation for minister to .... ..... 76, 807

Posey, Charles, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

Posey, Henry M.,

pension increased ..

1589

Post Exchanges, Army,

appropriation for construction, etc., limit. 516,

937

Post, John P., increased pension .
Post, Martin and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims; payment

1662 764

Post- Office Department (see also Postal Serv-

ice ) ,

appropriation for Postmaster - General,

clerks, etc...

164, 899

for clerks, etc. , office of Assistant Attor-

ney- General ..

164, 900

for First Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc...

164, 900

for superintendent, Money-Order Sys-

tem....

164,900

for superintendent, Free-Delivery Sys-

tem, etc...

164, 900

for superintendent, Dead-Letter Office . 164, 900

for superintendent of salaries and allow-

ances

164, 900

for extra force, Spanish war work.... 164 , 900

for supervisor, etc. , rural free delivery .. 165 for superintendent, etc. , rural free de-

livery.

900

for Second Assistant Postmaster- Gen-

eral, clerks, etc ....

165, 900

for superintendent of railway adjust-

ment, etc

165, 900

for superintendent of foreign mails , etc. 165, 900

for Third Assistant Postmaster- General,

clerks, etc ..

165,901

for per diem, assistant superintendents

and special agents .

165, 901

for Fourth Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral, clerks, etc ..

165, 901

2188

INDEX .

Post- Office Department-Continued .

Page .

appropriation for chief inspector, clerks,

etc

165,901

for topographer, draftsmen, etc ................ 166 , 901

for disbursing clerk, engineers, watch-

men, etc ..

166, 901

for contingent expenses

166, 902

for rent ..

167, 902

for Official Postal Guide ..

167, 902

for post-route maps .

167, 902

for postage stamps .. for Assistant Attorney-General

167, 903 167, 903

for printing and binding .

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for postal serv-

ice ... 23, 32, 576, 588, 759, 1061 , 1075, 1077

for printing and binding
for telegraphing for furniture..

94, 1069 576 576

for repairs to building .

576

for Katie A. Nolan ...

576

for disbursing clerk's office .. for contingent expenses .

1060 1060

securing site for addition to building authorized
statistical and scientific work in, may be transferred to Department of Commerce and Labor

1211 830

Post-Office Inspectors,

appropriation for salaries; allowances . 117 , 1174

allowance for information, etc ...

117

Post-Office Supplies,

appropriation for superintendent, etc .. 164, 900

Post-Offices,

appropriation for postmasters ... salary of Chicago office....

107, 1166 1166

pay of discontinued offices available

for stations..

107, 1166

for assistant postmasters..

107, 1166

salary, Chicago office

1166

for clerks, etc., first and second class

offices

108, 1166

for separating mails, third and fourth

class offices ..

110, 1169

temporary clerks during busy hours . 110, 1169 for rent, etc., first, second, and third
class; limit third class ... ... 111 , 1169

for miscellaneous, first and second class;

expenditures

111 , 1169

for advertising, etc.

111 , 1169

for canceling machines .

111 , 1169

limit of rental ; report on purchases,

etc

1169

for lookouts to protect mail in certain .. 1090

deficiency appropriation for clerk hire.. 32, 1075

for rent, etc

759

Post- Route Maps, appropriation for publishing ...

167, 902

Postage, etc., Stamps,

appropriation for manufacture; distribu-

tion ...

... 117, 1174

deficiency appropriation for manufacture . 23, 1061

Postal Cards,

appropriation for manufacture; distribu-

tion

117, 1174

deficiency appropriation for manufacture,

etc

1061

Postal Congress, Universal, appropriation for expenses, delegate to ...
Postal Conventions, money order, with Bolivia . with Canada . with Greece . parcels post, with Bolivia with New Zealand ..

1174
1868 1875 1924 1948 1843

Postal Guide, Official, appropriation for publication
Postal Laws and Regulations,

Page. 167, 902

appropriation for printing, etc. , revised

edition .

107

for digest of decisions .

107

deficiency appropriation for additional cop-

ies; sale..

1061

Postal Service ( see also Post-Office Department ) ,
office of Postmaster-General :

appropriation for advertising for miscellaneous ...

107, 1165 107, 1165

for revised edition Postal Laws and

Regulations ; sale .

107

for printing opinions of Assistant

Attorney-General .

1166

office ofFirst Assistant Postmaster-General :

appropriation for postmasters ....... 107, 1166

salary, Chicago ..

1166

for assistants, first and second class

offices

107, 1166

salary, Chicago .

1166

for clerks, etc. , first and second class

offices ..

108, 1166

for superintendents, etc

110, 1169

for substitute and temporary clerks . 110 , 1169

for separating mails, third and fourth

class offices...

110, 1169

temporary rush clerks

110, 1169

for rent, light, and fuel; limit

111, 1169

ten years' leases allowed for miscellaneous expenses

111, 1169 111, 1169

for advertising

111, 1169

for canceling machines...

111, 1169

limit of rental ; report on purchases.. 1169

interchange of appropriations ... 111 , 1169 for assistant superintendents, salary
and allowance division ..... 111, 1170

for free delivery; interchangeable ex-

penditures

111, 1170

for rural free delivery .

112, 1170

salaries classified

112

report on lock box..

113

penalty for injuring, etc. , boxes ..
oaths in postal cases
for stationery.. for wrapping twine and paper. for letter balances, etc ... for postmarking, etc. , stamps . for packing boxes, etc ... for printing; manifold books
for money-order supplies . four-year contracts .
for miscellaneous

mail 113, 1175 113
113, 1171 113, 1171 113, 1171 113, 1171 113, 1171 113, 1171 113, 1171
114 114, 1171

traveling, First Assistant Postmaster-

General ..

1171

city directories, etc

1172

vehicle for First Assistant Postmas-

ter-General

1172

office of Second Assistant PostmasterGeneral:

appropriation for transportation, star

routes

114, 1172

Alaska service ..

114, 1172

for steamboat routes

114, 1172

for mail-messenger service .

114, 1172

for pneumatic-tube service; contracts . 114,

1172

for wagon, etc. , service ... for mail bags, etc .. for mail locks and keys

115, 1172 115, 1172 115, 1172

for repair shop

115 , 1172

for transportation , railroad routes . 115, 1172

INDEX .

2189

Postal Service- Continued .

Page.

office of Second Assistant Postmaster- Gen-

eral-Continued .

appropriation for postal-car service .. 115, 1172

for railway mail employees .... 115, 1172

substitutes for clerks on vacation ;

vacation allowed

115, 1173

acting clerks for injured ones ; allow-

ance in case of death..

115, 1173

traveling expenses ..

115, 1173

miscellaneous expenses ..

116, 1173

per diem assistant superintendents . 116, 1173

for transportation, electric, etc. , cars . 116, 1173

special facilities, Washington to New

Orleans ..

116, 1173

Kansas City to Newton, Kans ... 116, 1173

for miscellaneous expenses

116, 1173

for foreign mail transportation.... 116, 1173

mails to Tahiti

116, 1173

clerks on steamships .

116, 1173

pier transfers, New York and San

Francisco

.. 116, 1174

for balance due foreign countries .. 116, 1174

for delegate to Postal Congress

1174

office of Third Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral :

appropriation for postage stamps; distri-

bution ..

117, 1174

for stamped envelopes and wrappers;

distribution

117, 1174

for postal cards ; distribution for official envelopes ....

117, 1174 117, 1174

for ship, steamboat, and way letters . 117, 1174

for indemnity, lost registered letters;

maximum

117, 1174

for blanks, etc ..

117, 1174

for counsel, second-class mailing privi-

lege suits ..

1174

for miscellaneous

117, 1174

traveling expenses, Third Assistant . 1174 office of Fourth Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral:

appropriation for post-office inspect-

ors

117 , 1174

for per diem of inspectors in the

field .

117, 1175

allowances ; limit ..

1175

for salaries and expenses .

1175

obtaining information..

1175

for rewards, etc for miscellaneous

117 , 1175 118, 1175

appropriation for deficiencies in reve-

nues .

118, 1176

deficiency appropriation for rural free de-

livery

23, 576, 759, 1061

for manufacture of stamps .

23, 1061

for postmasters .

24, 33 , 588, 1061 , 1075

for registered-package, etc. , envelopes. 23, 1061

for rent, light, and fuel

23, 32, 590, 759

for transportation, star routes ..

24 ,

33, 576, 588, 590, 1062, 1075 , 1077

for free delivery. for clerk hire ...

24, 32, 576, 590, 1061 , 1075 32, 1075

for special delivery

32

for money-order service ..

32

for First Assistant Postmaster-General .. 32

for military postal service

33

for railroad transportation ...

33, 1061

for mail-messenger transportation 33, 1061

for indemnity, lost mail .. 33, 588, 590, 1075

for rewards

33, 1075

for steamboat routes

576, 1062, 1075

for O. J. Salisbury ..

588

Postal Service- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for advertising.. 590

for Railway Mail Service...

759, 1062

for reimbursing, case of C. W. Battle ... 1036

for additional copies Postal Laws and

Regulations ..

1061

for wrapping twine, etc

1061

for balance due foreign nations

1061

for stamped envelopes and wrappers . 1061

for postal cards .

1061

for miscellaneous, First Assistant

1075

civil pension or honorable service roll pro-

hibited

118, 1176

no payments to incapacitated persons . 118 , 1176

clerk may be designated to sign warrants

and drafts ..

1176

franking privilege granted Ida S. McKin-

ley

1237

freight on supplies, etc. , extra allowance from railroad transportation fund ..
prepaying third and fourth class matter for
remailing notice to sender; payment

576
1176 1176

punishment for injuries to letter boxes,

extended to all mail routes ...

1175

for unlawful entry of mail car or com-

partment

1176

for assaulting railway postal clerk on

duty ..

1176

special-delivery messengers' maximum

allowance increased

1175

given protection as mail carriers ...

1176

Posters, D. C.,

regulations for exhibiting, etc

627

Postmarking, etc., Stamps, Postal Service, appropriation for
Postmaster- General,

113, 1171

appropriation for, clerks, etc for postal service, office of.

164, 899 107 , 1165

may designate clerk to sign warrants and

drafts .....

1176

Postmaster, House of Representatives,

appropriation for, assistant, messengers,

etc

127, 861

for horses and mail wagons .

127, 861

Postmaster, Senate,

appropriation for, assistant, etc ........ 123 , 856 Postmasters,

appropriation for compensation ....... 107 , 1166

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion

24, 33, 588 , 1061 , 1075

Potomac Flats Case, D. C. ,

jurisdiction of District supreme court con-

tinued ....

522

deficiency appropriation for paying judgments of supreme court, D. C
Potomac Park, D. C. , appropriation for improvement of
Potomac River, D. C. , appropriation for clearing, of ice. for improvement of, Washington time for constructing highway bridge extended; cost increased

1071 459
37 351 598

use of Aqueduct Bridge by electric railway

permitted; conditions

781

Potomac River, Va. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made,

Alexandria Harbor .

383

Pottawatomie and Great Nemaha Agency, Okla. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246 , 983

Pottawatomie Indian Reservation, Kans. , appropriation for construction of bridges . 265

pro rata allotment, if surplus lands insuffi-

cient

1007

2190

INDEX .

Pottawatomie Indians,

Page. President ofthe United States-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 251 , 988 | executive officers, in Philippines, to be ap-

Potter, Charles L.,

pointed by

692

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

may appoint James W. Long captain,

counts

556

Army retired list

398

Potter, Wesley S.,

R. M. G. Brown commander, Navy re-

pension increased ..

1572

tired list .....

63

Potts, Eli, pension increased .

Robert Platt commander, Navy retired

1710

list .

796

Potvin, Alphonse M., payment to

William P. Randall commander, Navy

239

retired list

796

Poulsen, Valdemar,

H. C. Merriam major-general, to be re-

letters-patent validated...

1647

tired ...

796

Poutney, Peter, pension increased ..

John Russell Bartlett rear-admiral, Navy

1532

retired list

821

Powell, Emma Dean (widow), pension
Powell, James H., pension ...
Power, Aurelia M. (widow) , pension increased ..
Practice, D. C.

Thomas H. Carpenter captain ofinfantry. 824

1580

William McCarty Little captain, Navy

retired list

850

1633

George A. Detchemendy captain of in-

fantry, to be retired

956

1521

William Crawford Gorgas assistant sur-

geon-general, Army

1022

amendments allowed in all judicial pro-

ceedings

530

Kensey J. Hampton captain and quar-

termaster, Army.

1030

Prager and Company, payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

Edward Karshner medical inspector,

Navy retired list ....

1278

ministrator of surviving partner

218,

223, 225

Julius A. Kaiser passed assistant engi-

neer, Navy retired list

1571

Prague, Austria, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire ...

82, 814 86, 818

may promote William VictorTomb ensign,

Navy

1504

may restore John Walton Ross to active

Pratt and Kintzing,

list, Navy, as medical director ............. 797

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

James G. Field surgeon, Navy active list . 1366

ministrator of surviving partner .. 222, 225

Pratt, Gustavus C. ,

pension increased .

1426

Pratt, William T. ,

may transfer Jerome E. Morse on Navy

retired list

144

may transfer scientific and statistical work from other Departments to Depart-

military record corrected .....

1286

ment of Commerce and Labor .......... 830

Precious Metals, appropriation for collecting statistics of. 140, 875

requested to return bill relating to execution of deeds in Philippines and

Preferences of Bankrupts, description of, modified ..
voidable by trustees .

Porto Rico relating to lands in the

799

District .

1765

800

for relief of Edward Kershner..

1766

Preferred Creditors, powers of trustees in bankruptcy extended

to prevent desecration of graves, etc. , Dis-

trict of Columbia............

1766

to secure property from ....

799

claims of, not allowed, unless preferences

surrendered ...

799

Preliminary Examinations and Surveys,

appropriation for, rivers and harbors

372

to pension Robert S. Woodbury

1766

to pension Abbie George ..

1766

right of way, Central Arizona Railway

Company

1767

to pension Hannah T. Knowles..

1767

compilation of, to be submitted to Con-

relating to British ship " Foscolia'

1770

gress ...

375

Prentice, Joseph R.,

pension increased ..

1636

Prentis, Thomas T., appropriation for paying children of ..... 811

Prescott, Elizabeth K. (widow),

pension increased ....

1307

Prescott, Ontario, appropriation for consul at

85, 817

to Missouri western judicial district .. 1773

for relief of Francis S. Davidson ...

1773

statement of all lands used by Government

to be prepared by

432

to appoint judges of Philippine supreme

and first instance courts ..

695

to prescribe rules for General Staff Corps,

Army ..

830

rules, etc. , Public Health, etc. , Service . 714

to regulate commercial intercourse in

President of the United States (see also Procla-

Philippines during hostilities ....... 692

mations) ,

appropriation for compensation.

132, 866

for Secretary, clerks, etc

132, 866

for construction of office building for... 460

for rent of temporary offices .

460

to reserve lands, etc. , in Porto Rico for

public uses ..

731

Presidio of San Francisco, Cal.,

appropriation for wall, national ceme-

terv

464, 1128

for portrait, for Executive Mansion

1123 Presley, Mabery H.,

action creating, etc. , Philippine Commis-

pension increased ..

1560

sion approved, ratified , and con-

Preston, Delania (widow),

firmed

691 pension ...

1648

additional midshipmen to be appointed by 686 Preston, Hugh C.,

authorized to call out militia to suppress

credit in accounts ..

1278

rebellion, execute laws, etc. authorized to acquire Isthmian Canal

776 | Pretoria, South Africa, 481 appropriation for consul at .

82, 813

INDEX .

2191

Prevention of Cruelty to Children, refund of tax on bequests to societies for .
Price, Cassandia S., payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ......

Page. 406
210

Price, Isaac B.,
pension Price, James T.,
pension increased . Prince, James,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1745 1754 232

Prink, Oscar H. ,

pension increased ..

1665

Prison Commission, International,

appropriation for contribution ..

80

Prison Ship Monument, Brooklyn, N. Y. ,

appropriation for contribution to

747

Prisoners, United States Courts, appropriation for support of

476, 1142

deficiency appropriation for support of.... 32, 579, 588, 590, 1066, 1075

deductions of sentence for good conduct

increased

397

Pritchard and Company, R. L. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 216

Pritchett, William R.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ..

212

Private Claims,

appropriation for preparing list of, House

of Representatives, 52d-57th Con-

gresses..

582, 858

for record of, introduced in Senate, 56th

and 57th Congresses .

580, 857

Private Land Claims ( see also Court of Private Land Claims ),

appropriation for surveying .....

454, 1117

deficiency appropriation for surveying . 587, 1074

Privies, D. C.,

temporary, allowed ; permits, etc

74

Privileges, Philippines,

may be granted, for public utility and

service; conditions

709

Prize Money, Manila Bay Battle,

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ment

1072

Probate Court, D. C. , to enforce rendition of inventories, etc ... 525

two deputy registers of wills authorized ;

duties

526

proceedings against unknown heirs, etc.;

further probate..

526

substance of issues, etc. , to be published 526

auditor's report, before sale of real estate . 527

executory devises may be sold in infant's

interest

527

may lease infant's estate with consent of

parties in interest ..

527

may mortgage property for infant's main-

tenance .

527

powers over lunatics and drunkards re-

pealed ....

527

jury service modified

528

provision repealed directing administer-

ing estate of decedent domiciled in

the District

528

creditor's lien on real and personal estate of decedents domiciled elsewhere.. 528

executor's bond, may be increased, etc. , on demand of any interested party . 528

special bond of administrator; consent of

parties....

528

notice of application for administration

528

Probate Court, D. C. - Continued. lawful distribution by administrators or executors on revocation of powers.. bonds of administrators or executors, limit of actions on
exemptions from assets of estates limitation of actions against sureties of
executors, etc. , for personal debts due estate ..
executors, etc. , may not bring suits for injuries to reputation of decedent ..
restriction on allowance of claims discharged by executors, etc. , re-
pealed ... rendering subsequent accounts by execu-
tors, etc., modified ..
letters may be revoked on failure of executor, etc. , to return accounts
allowance for funeral expenses reduced ... filing by executor, etc. , of list of debts, re-
pealed no distinction between whole and half
blood in descent of personalty . schedule of fees ...
Process Butter (see Renovated Butter) . Process, D. C. ,
service in law and equity on infants .... on non compos person
counsel assigned for nonresident infants .. service on foreign corporations having no
place of business nor officer... Proclamations of the President,
adding lands to Cascade Range Forest Reserve, Oreg
announcing opening, etc., of Louisiana Purchase Exposition..
postponing opening of Louisiana Purchase Exposition
appointing Thanksgiving Day, 1901 Thanksgiving Day, 1902 ..
changing boundaries of Big Horn Forest Reserve, Wyo ..
Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Wyo Olympic Forest Reserve, Wash . White River Forest Reserve, Colo Yellowstone and Teton forest reserves,
Wyo ..... Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo ...
consolidating San Francisco Mountains forest reserves, Ariz
Yellowstone, Teton, and Absaroka forest reserves
convening special session of the Senate ... declaring agreement with Creek Indians
ratified supplemental agreement with Creek
Indians .
declaring organization of civil government, etc., in Porto Rico ..
granting amnesty to insurrectionists in the Philippines
opening to entry, etc. , lands in Idaho ceded
by Shoshone and Bannock Indians . in Oklahoma ceded by Kiowas, etc.,
Indians ...
restoring to public domain Cheyenne River Indian Agency lands ..
Fort Sill Indian subagency land, Okla Kiowa and Comanche agency premises,
Okla..
part of Mission Indian lands, California . additional ..
part of Washington Forest Reserve setting apart Absaroka Forest Reserve,
Mont .

Page.
528
529 529
529 529
529
529 529 529 530
530 541
523 523 524
544
1972
1986 2011 1987 2028
2004 2015 1981 2008 1999 2006 1991 2030 2036 1971 2021 1983
2014
1997 1975 2035 2026
43 1970 2005 1969
2027

2192

INDEX .

Proclamations ofthe President-Continued. setting apart Alexander Archipelago Forest Reserve, Alaska .. Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Ariz .......... Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex . Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont ..
Luquillo Forest Reserve, Porto Rico .. Madison Forest Reserve, Mont

Page.
2025 2019 1995 2018
2022 2029 2024

Medicine Bow Forest Reservation,Wyo . Mount Graham Forest Reserve , Ariz ... Niobrara Forest Reserve, Nebr Payson Forest Reserve, Utah .. San Isabel Forest Reserve, Colo Santa Catalina Forest Reserve, Ariz .... Santa Rita Forest Reserve, Ariz ... Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla .. suspending discriminating tonnage, etc. ,
dues on Cuban vessels and merchandise

2003 2017 1993 1985 1988 2012 1989 1973
2013

Proctor, James L.,

military record corrected ....

1278

Proctor, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ....

221

Proctor, R. G., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 580

Production of Precious Metals, 1900,

report on, ordered printed

1769

Professions,

aliens belonging to, not excluded admission 1214

Progreso, Mexico, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Projectiles,

appropriation for armor plates, etc. , for

testing .

307, 1026

Projectiles from Balloons, Launching,

international declaration prohibiting for

five years

1839

Propeller Towboat Company, deficiency appropriation for payment to
Property, convention with Guatemala, as to tenure, etc. , of real and personal supplementary convention with Great Britain as to tenure, etc. , of real and personal
Property of Confederate Soldiers, claims for, taken in violation of terms of

1037 1613
1944
1914

toatt

surrender at Appomattox to be in-

vestigated...

appropriation for paying approved claims

proof required ; heirs entitled .

43

deficiency appropriation for paying claims . 1048

Property Rights,

governmental, in Philippines not affected

by general amnesty ...

2015

Proprietary Stamps, time forredeeming extended to July 1 , 1904 506

Prosecution of Crimes, appropriation for expenses

474, 1140

Prostitutes,

admission of alien, excluded

1214

Prostitution,

importing females for purposes of, forbid-

den; punishment ..

1214

Protecting Public Lands, etc.,

appropriation for expenses

452, 1115

deficiency appropriation for expenses

21 ,

1056, 1074

Protocol,

with Mexico, arbitration of Pious Fund .. 1916

Providence Hospital, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for destitute patients; onehalf from District revenues .... 1132 , 4677

for isolation wards..

609,974

for reconstructing building, etc.

1132

Providence, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 348

construction of new public building au-

thorized at ..

322

appropriation for

429, 1089

donation of site for building accepted .

322

sale of present public building authorized ;

minimum price..........

322

Providence River, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of; removal of Green Jacket Shoal ..... 348

for improvement of ..........

462

Provincetown, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 332

Provisions, Navy, appropriation for .............
Public Buildings,

.... 679, 1190

appropriation for Aberdeen , S. Dak... 420, 1083

for Abilene, Tex ..

420

for Adrian, Mich .

1083

for Alexandria, Va

1083

for Allentown, Pa

1083

for Amesbury, Mass

1083

for Anderson, Ind

1083

for Anniston, Ala..

1083

for Athens, Ga .

1083

for Atlantic, Iowa

1083

for Atlantic City, N. J

1083

for Augusta, Me .

1083

for Baltimore, Md . , custom-house ... rental... addition to subtreasury
for Bangor, Me . for Baraboo, Wis .
for Batesville, Ark .. for Battle Creek, Mich for Beaumont, Tex . for Biloxi, Miss for Boise, Idaho for Boone, Iowa . for Brunswick, Ga.. for Burlington, Iowa. for Burlington, Vt .. for Butte, Mont . for Centerville, Iowa . for Charlottesville, Va for Cheyenne, Wyo .....

420, 1083 420 1083 1083 1083 1083 1083 1083 1084 420 1084 420 1084 1084
1084 1084 1084 420

for Chicago, Ill. , temporary post-office .. 420, 1084

rent temporary quarters .. new post-office, etc .. for Chillicothe, Ohio .. for Cleveland, Ohio .. rent, temporary buildings . for Colorado Springs, Colo.. for Crawfordsville , Ind ... for Creston, Iowa.. for Cumberland, Md . for Dallas, Tex for Deadwood, S. Dak . for Decatur, Ill .. for Dekalb, Ill .. for Denver, Colo. , mint . for Durham, N. C for Easton, Pa .. for Eau Claire, Wis for Elizabeth City, N. C. for Elizabeth, N. J. for Ellis Island, N. Y. , immigrant
tion

1084 420, 1084
1084 420, 1084 420, 1084
1084 1084 420 420, 1084 1084 1084 1084 1084 1084 1084 1084 1084 420 1084
sta1084

INDEX.

2193

Public Buildings- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Elkhart, Ind

1085

for Elmira, N. Y

420

for Emporia, Kans .

1085

for Evanston, Ill for Evanston, Wyo for Fergus Falls, Minn .

1085 1085 420, 1085

for Findlay, Ohio

1085

for Fitchburg, Mass .

421

for Flint, Mich

1085

for Florence, S. C

1085

for Fond du Lac, Wis

1085

for Fort Smith, Ark .

1085

for Freeport, Ill

421

for Fresno, Cal

1085

for Gainesville, Fla

1085

for Gainesville, Tex .

1085

for Geneva, N.Y

1085

for Georgetown, S. C.

1085

for Gloversville, N. Y

1085

for Goldsboro, N. C

1085

for Grand Forks, N. Dak .

1085

for Grand Haven, Mich

1085

for Green Bay, Wis .

1085

for Greenville, Tenn

1085

for Greensboro , N. C .; rent

1086

for Guthrie, Okla .

1086

for Hammond, Ind

1086

for Harrison , rk .

1086

for Hartford, Conn .

1086

for Hastings, Nebr .

1086

for Helena, Mont .

421

for Henderson, Ky

1086

for Holyoke, Mass .

1086

for Honolulu, Hawaii, immigrant station 1086

for Hot Springs, Ark

421

for Huntington, W. Va

1086

for Hutchinson, Kans ...

1086

for Indianapolis, Ind .

421 , 1086

rent of temporary offices

421 , 1086

for Iowa City, Iowa ..

1086

for Ironton, Ohio ..

1086

for Ithaca, N. Y ..

1086

for Jacksonville , Fla .

1086

for Jacksonville, Ill .

1086

for Jamestown, N. Y.

421 , 1086

for Janesville, Wis ..

421

for Joliet, Ill .

421

for Joplin, Mo ..

421 , 1086

for Kalamazoo, Mich

1086

for Kankakee, Ill .

1086

for Kingston, N. Y.

1086

for Kirksville, Mo.

1087

for Laramie, Wyo

1087

for Laredo, Tex

1087

for Lawrence, Kans .

1087

for Leadville, Colo .

1087

for Lebanon, Pa ..

1087

for Lincoln, Nebr ..

1087

rent, temporary offices .

1087

for Little Falls, N. Y.

1087

for Lockport, N. Y for Logansport, Ind. for Los Angeles, Cal
rent, temporary offices . for Louisiana, Mo for Macon, Ga.. for Marblehead, Mass .. for Marshalltown, Iowa . for Martinsville, Va .. for Maysville, Ky
for McKeesport, Pa . for Memphis, Tenn for Meriden, Conn .. for Minneapolis, Minn

421 , 1087 1087 1087
421 , 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087 1087

VOL XXXII , PT 2- -61

Public Buildings--Continued. appropriation for Montgomery, Ala . for Muncie, Ind for Muskegon, Mich for Nashua, N. H.
for Nashville, Tenn . for Natchez, Miss . for Nevada, Mo .. for New Brunswick, N. J ..

Page. 1087 1087 1087 1088 1088 1088 1088 1088

for New York, N. Y. , custom-house . post-office, etc .. appraiser's warehouse . old custom-house, rent barge office.
for Newark, N. J for Newcastle, Pa ..

421 , 1088 422
422, 1088 422 , 1088
1088 421 1088

for Newport News, Va for Newport, Vt . for Niagara Falls, N. Y for Norfolk, Nebr .. for Norristown, Pa.. for Northampton , Mass . for Oak Park, Ill

421 , 1088 421 , 1088
1088 1088 1088 1088 1088

for Ogden, Utah . for Oil City, Pa .. for Oklahoma City, Okla for Omaha, Nebr for Oskaloosa, Iowa . for Ottawa, Ill ..

1088 1088 1088 1088 422 1088

for Owosso, Mich .

1088

for Paducah, Ky .

1088

for Pekin , Ill ..

1088

for Perth Amboy, N. J. for Portland, Oreg .
rent, temporary offices . for Providence, R. I

1088 1089 1089 1089

for Reno, Nev .

1089

for Richmond, Ind

1089

for Richmond, Va. , additional land .

1089

for Rock Hill , S. C ..

1089

for Rome, N. Y. for Saint Cloud, Minn .. for Saint Louis, Mo. , post-office .

1089 422 1089

for Saint Paul, Minn ..

422

for Salt Lake City, Utah

422, 1089

for San Francisco, Cal. , custom-house .. 1089

for Scranton, Pa .

1089

for Seattle, Wash

422

for Selma, Ala .

1089

for Sherman, Tex

1089

for Spartanburg, S. C for Springfield, Ill ...
rent, temporary offices . for Stillwater, Minn

1089 1089 1089 1089

for Superior, Wis for Tampa, Fla . for Torrington, Conn for Vincennes, Ind .. for Waco, Tex.; rent . for Warren, Ohio .

1089 1089 1089 1090 1090 1090

for Washington, D. C. , Bureau of Stand-

ards

422, 1090

for Washington , Pa . for Waterbury, Conn for Waterloo, Iowa for Wausau, Wis for West Chester, Pa. for Wheeling, W. Va . for Wilkesbarre, Pa .... for Zanesville, Ohio ...

1090 1090 1090 1090 1090 1090 1090 1090

for repairs, etc. , Treasury building,

D.C.

422, 1090

for repairs and preservation

422, 1090

employment of superintendents, etc .. 422

for lookouts to protect mails ....

1090

2194

INDEX .

Public Buildings-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for heating, etc. , appa-

ratus

422, 1090

for vaults, safes, and locks

422, 1091

for electrical protection to vaults ..

1091

for plans ....

423, 1091

for marine hospitals

423

for quarantine stations, sites, etc...

423

for assistant custodians and janitors . 448, 1110

for inspector of supplies....

448, 1110

for inspector of furniture, etc. for furniture and repairs

448, 1110 448, 1110

for fuel, light, and water

449 , 1110

for draftsmen, etc. , Architect's Office ;

limit ...

135, 869

deficiency appropriation for plans ....

7

for assistant custodians and janitors .... 28,

585, 588, 1072

for fuel, light, and water for heating apparatus for repairs, etc .. for furniture, etc .. for vaults, safes, and locks . for Bristol, Tenn for Carrollton, Ky for Chicago, Ill. , repairs, etc. for Cleveland, Ohio, rent, etc.

28, 585, 1072 28, 585, 1076
28,585 585, 588
1036 9 9
558

for Columbus, Ga.

for Dubuque, Iowa

for Frenchmans Bay, Me

9

for Muncie, Ind ..

558

for Saint Paul, Minn .. for San Francisco, Cal. , mint for Springfield Ill. , rent . for Taunton, Mass for Wilmington , N. C. , repairs to wharf. for Waco, Tex. , rent for Greensboro, N. C. , rent .. for laboratory, Public Health and Ma-
rine-Hospital Service

9 558
28 1037 1037 1037
1037

for investigating contract, Charleston,

S. C.

1037

at Williamsport, Pa. , may be used for

State court

1230

construction of, authorized for Depart-

ment of Agriculture ..

806

Mobile, Ala. , transfer of sewer connection . 421

restriction on site for, Bridgeport, Conn. ,

repealed .

850

Muskegon, Mich. , removed .

764

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts, conferencecommitteeauthorized to include

appropriations for, in sundry civil

bill ...

1771

limit of cost increased, Aberdeen, S. Dak. 314

Alexandria, Va

314

appropriation for Allentown, Pa... Amesbury, Mass .

424 1205 1206

Anniston, Ala ..

310, 1204

Atlanta, Ga ..

311

appropriation for

424

Atlantic City, N. J.

1205

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Augusta, Me

312

appropriation for

424

Bangor, Me . appropriation for
Batesville, Ark

312 424 1206

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Battle Creek, Mich

1204

Beaumont, Tex ..

311

appropriation for

424

Binghamton, N. Y.

312

appropriation for

424

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts--Continued. Page.

limit of cost increased, Brunswick, Ga ... 311

appropriation for

424

Buffalo, N. Y .....

313

appropriation for

424

Burlington, Iowa ..

311

appropriation for

424

Butte, Mont ..

312

Centerville, Iowa ..

1205

deficiency appropriation for Chicago, Ill .

1038 1204

Chillicothe, Ohio

1203

Cleveland, Ohio ..

313

Colorado Springs, Colo . Council Bluffs, Iowa .

1203 1204

deficiency appropriation for Cumberland, Md

1038 312

Dallas, Tex

314

appropriation for

424

Dekalb, Ill.... Denver, Colo. , mint

1203 311

Durham, N. C .............

1205

deficiency appropriation for Eau Claire, Wis .

1038 314

Elizabeth City, N. C ..

313, 1204

Elizabeth, N. J..

1205

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Emporia, Kans...

1204

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Evanston, Wyo

1205

Fargo, N. Dak

1204

Fergus Falls, Minn

312

Fitchburg, Mass ..

1204

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Fond du Lac, Wis

1206

Fort Smith, Ark .

311

appropriation for

424

Fresno, Cal ..

1203

Georgetown, S. C ..

1204

Goldsboro, N. C ...

1205

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Greensboro, N. C.

315

appropriation for

424

Guthrie, Okla ..

1205

Harrison, Ark .

1203

Hartford, Conn

311

appropriation for

424

Henderson, Ky .

1204

Huntington, W. Va ..

1205

Hutchinson , Kans .

1204

Indianapolis, Ind ..

1204

Jackson, Miss

312

appropriation for

425

Jacksonville, Fla . appropriation for

315, 1203 425

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

Jamestown, N. Y

313

Janesville, Wis .

1205

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Joplin, Mo.

312

Kalamazoo, Mich .

315

appropriation for

425

Kankakee, Ill .......

1204

Lawrence, Kans .

1204

Leadville, Colo ..

315

Lincoln, Nebr .

312

appropriation for

425

Louisiana, Mo. , to include site.

1212

Lynn, Mass .

312

appropriation for

425

McKeesport, Pa

1205

Marblehead, Mass .

1205

Martinsville, Va ..

1205

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Maysville, Ky ...

1204

INDEX .

2195

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts-Continued. Page. limit of cost increased , Memphis, Tenn ... 314

appropriation for...

425

Menominee, Mich

315

appropriation for

425

Minneapolis, Minn

312

appropriation for

425

Monmouth, Ill

311

appropriation for

425

Montgomery, Ala ..

310

appropriation for

425

Nashville, Tenn

314, 1205

appropriation for

425

New Brighton, Pa ..

315

appropriation for .

425

New Brunswick, N. J

312

New York, N. Y. , custom-house

312

Newport News, Va

314

Newport, Vt .

315

Niagara Falls, N. Y.

1205

Norfolk, Va ..

315

appropriation for

425

Oak Park, Ill .......

1206

Oil City, Pa.

1205

Omaha, Nebr

315 , 1205

appropriation for

425

Oskaloosa, Iowa .

315

appropriation for

425

Owosso, Mich

1212

Ottumwa, Iowa

311

appropriation for

425

Paducah, Ky.

311

appropriation for

425

Pekin , Ill .

1204

Perth Amboy, N. J.

1203

Philadelphia, Pa., mint ..

315

appropriation for .

425

Portland, Oreg. , custom-house.

314

appropriation for

425

Portland, Oreg. , post-office and court-

house .

314

appropriation for . Richmond, Ky ..
appropriation for Richmond, Va ...
appropriation for . Rochester, N. Y..
appropriation for.
deficiency appropriation for . Rockhill, S. C...

425 311 425 313 425 312, 1205 425 1038 1206

Rome, Ga..

314, 1203

appropriation for

425

deficiency appropriation for

1037

Saint Joseph, Mo.

314, 1206

appropriation for

425

deficiency appropriation for...

1038

San Francisco, Cal. , custom-house... 1203

Sandusky, Ohio

313

appropriation for

426

Scranton, Pa

320, 745

appropriation for

426

Seattle, Wash

315

Sherman, Tex .. Springfield, Ill
appropriation for Superior, Wis Tampa, Fla Waco, Tex
appropriation for Washington, D. C. , Bureau of Standards .

1206 315 426 1205 311 315 426 315

Washington, D. C. , municipal building . 1206

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Washington, Pa .

1205

Wausau, Wis ..

1206

Youngstown, Ohio ..

313

appropriation for

426

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts- Continued. no enlargement of sites without specific
authority limit of cost includes all changes, repairs,
etc. , of buildings .. repairs, etc. , of completed buildings allowed
by increase of limit of cost construction of, authorized on ground
owned in Champaign, Ill.. deficiency appropriation for Columbia, Mo.... deficiency appropriation for Emporia, Kans .. appropriation for Guthrie, Okla appropriation for Hastings, Nebr . appropriation for Moberly, Mo .. deficiency appropriation for Natchitoches, La deficiency appropriation for Norfolk, Nebr .. appropriation for Oklahoma City, Okla appropriation for Pierre, S. Dak .... deficiency appropriation for San Francisco, Cal. , custom -house appropriation for Spokane Falls, Wash .
deficiency appropriation for Sterling, II.
deficiency appropriation for Tacoma, Wash
deficiency appropriation for Traverse City, Mich
deficiency appropriation for Yankton, S. Dak
deficiency appropriation for construction authorized, if cost of site
nominal, in Adrian, Mich appropriation for Atlantic, Iowa... appropriation for Centerville, Iowa .. appropriation for Easton, Pa . appropriation for Florence, S. C ..... appropriation for Gainesville, Fla .. appropriation for Grand Haven , Mich appropriation for Ironton, Ohio appropriation for Louisiana, Mo ...
appropriation for Muskegon, Mich..
appropriation for Ogden, Utah
appropriation for Owosso, Mich ..
appropriation for Perth Amboy, N. J
appropriation for
sites only acceptable where building may be within limit of cost
construction authorized at Allentown, Pa..
appropriation for Amesbury, Mass..
appropriation for Anderson, Ind ...
appropriation for

Page.
315
315
315
1206 1038 1206 1038 316 426 316 426 316 426 1206 1038 1207 1038 316 426 316 426 1207 1038
316 426 1207 1038 1206 1038 1206 1038 1206 1038 1207 1038
316 426 317 426 316 426316 426 317 426 316 426 316 426 317 426 316 426 317 426 316 426 317 426 317 426
317
319 426 318 427 318 427

2196

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts-- Continued. Page.

construction authorized at Athens, Ga ... 317

appropriation for ..

427

Atlantic City, N. J ..

318

appropriation for

427

Baraboo, Wis

319

appropriation for

427

Batesville, Ark ..

317

appropriation for

427

Battlecreek, Mich

318

appropriation for

427

Biloxi, Miss

318

appropriation for

427

Boone, Iowa

318

appropriation for

427

Charlottesville, Va ...

319

appropriation for

427

Chillicothe, Ohio .

319

appropriation for

427

Colorado Springs, Colo ..

317

appropriation for

427

Columbia, Mo

318, 745

Crawfordsville, Ind .

318

appropriation for

427

Crookston, Minn .

320, 745

Deadwood, S. Dak

319

appropriation for

427

Decatur, Ill

317

appropriation for

427

Dekalb, Ill ..

318

appropriation for

427

Durham, N. C ..........

319

appropriation for

427

Elizabeth, N. J ..

319

appropriation for

427

Elkhart, Ind . appropriation for

} 318 427

Evanston, Ill .......

317

appropriation for

427

Evanston, Wyo ..

320

appropriation for

427

Findlay, Ohio .

319

appropriation for

427

Flint, Mich

319

appropriation for

427

Fond du Lac, Wis

320

appropriation for

427

Fresno, Cal ..

319

appropriation for

427

Gainesville, Tex..

320

appropriation for

427

Geneva, N. Y

319

appropriation for

427

Georgetown, S. C ..

319

appropriation for

427

Gloversville, N. Y.

319

appropriation for

427

Goldsboro, N. C ..

319

appropriation for

427

Grand Forks, N. Dak .

319

appropriation for

427

Green Bay, Wis ..

319

appropriation for

427

Greeneville, Tenn

317

appropriation for

427

Hammond, Ind

318

appropriation for

427

Harrison, Ark ..

317

appropriation for

427

Henderson, Ky ..

318

appropriation for

427

Holyoke, Mass .

318

appropriation for

427

Huntington, W. Va

320

appropriation for

427

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts-Continued . Page.

construction authorized at Hutchinson,

Kans

318

appropriation for

427

Iowa City, Iowa ..

318

appropriation for

427

Ithaca, N. Y

319

appropriation for

427

Jacksonville, Ill .

317

appropriation for

427

Kankakee, Ill ..

318

appropriation for

427

Kingston, N. Y.

319

appropriation for

427

Kirksville, Mo

317

appropriation for

428

Laramie, Wyo

320

appropriation for

428

Laredo, Tex .

320

appropriation for

428

Lawrence, Kans .

318

appropriation for

428

Lebanon, Pa ..

319

appropriation for

428

Little Falls, N. Y.

319

appropriation for.

428

Logansport, Ind .

318

appropriation for

428

McKeesport, Pa ..

319

appropriation for.

428

Marblehead, Mass

317

appropriation for

428

Marshalltown, Iowa

318

appropriation for

428

Martinsville, Va ...

318

appropriation for

428

Maysville, Ky...

318

appropriation for

428

Meriden, Conn

317

appropriation for

428

Moberly, Mo .. Muncie, Ind

317, 745 318

appropriation for

428

Nashua, N. H

318

appropriation for

428

Natchez, Miss

318

appropriation for

428

Nevada, Mo ....

318

appropriation for

428

Newcastle, Pa ....

319

appropriation for

428

Niagara Falls, N. Y.

319

appropriation for

428

Norristown, Pa .

319

appropriation for

428

Northampton, Mass .

318

appropriation for

428

Oak Park, Ill

317

appropriation for

428

Oil City, Pa ..

317

appropriation for

428

Ottawa, Ill ....

317

appropriation for

428

Pekin, Ill .

317

appropriation for

428

Reno, Nev

320

appropriation for

428

Richmond, Ind ..

318

appropriation for

428

Rock Hill, S. C ..........

318

appropriation for

428

Selina, Ala .

317

appropriation for

428

Sherman, Tex ...

318

appropriation for

428

INDEX .

2197

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts- Continued . Page.

construction authorized at Spartanburg,

S. C ....

319

appropriation for

428

Stillwater, Minn ..

317

appropriation for

428

Superior, Wis

319

appropriation for

428

Torrington, Conn ...

317

appropriation for

428

Vincennes, Ind ..

318

appropriation for

428

Warren, Ohio

319

appropriation for

428

Washington, Pa ...

319

appropriation for

428

Waterbury, Conn ..

317

appropriation for

428

Waterloo, Iowa

318

appropriation for

428

Wausau, Wis ...

319

appropriation for

428

West Chester, Pa ..

319

appropriation for

428

Zanesville, Ohio ..

319

appropriation for

428

restrictions as to sites

320

site to be acquired at Albert Lea, Minn.. 320

appropriation for

428

cost increased, construction authorized 1207

deficiency appropriation for . Albuquerque, N. Mex..

1038 320

appropriation for

428

Ann Arbor, Mich ..

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Augusta, Me.; additional land

1207

Baker City, Oreg .

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Bar Harbor, Me .

320

appropriation for

428

cost increased

1207

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Bedford, Ind ...

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Bessemer, Ala ..

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Bluefields, W.Va..

1208

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

Butler, Pa...

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Calais, Me

320

appropriation for

429

cost increased

1207

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Carbondale, Pa ..

1208

deficiency appropriation for Champaign, Ill..
appropriation for Chippewa Falls, Wis .

1039 321 429 1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Columbia, Mo. , appropriation for.... 429, 745

Corning, N. Y..

1208

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

Crookston, Minn. , appropriation for . 429, 745

cost increased

1207

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Dixon, Ill...

1207

deficiency appropriation for East Liverpool, Ohio ..
deficiency appropriation for Florence, la

1038 1208 1039 1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Gainesville, Ga........

1208

deficiency appropriation for Grand Island, Nebr..
deficiency appropriation for

1039 1208 1039

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts- Continued . Page.

site to be acquired at Hagerstown, Md ... 1207

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Hamilton, Ohio

320

appropriation for cost increased

429 1207

deficiency appropriation for Houston, Tex

1038 1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Johnstown, Pa..

320

appropriation for Marinette, Wis ....
deficiency appropriation for Marion, Ind ..
deficiency appropriation for Mason City, Iowa

429 1208 1039 1208 1039 1208

deficiency appropriation for Meadville, Pa .
deficiency appropriation for Moberly, Mo., appropriation for . Muscatine, Iowa...
appropriation for Natchitoches, La .
appropriation for Ocala, Fla ..

1039 1208 1039 429 320 429 321 429 1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Pierre, S. ak..

320

appropriation for Pine Bluff, Ark..
deficiency appropriation for . Portland, Me ..

429 1208 1039 1208

deficiency appropriation for Portsmouth, Va
appropriation for Quincy, Mass..
appropriation for .

1039 320 429 320 429

Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

320

appropriation for

429

cost increased ; construction author-

ized

1207

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Spokane, Wash..

320

appropriation for

429

Sterling, Ill ..

321

appropriation for

429

Tacoma, Wash

320

appropriation for

429

Traverse City, Mich .

320

appropriation for

429

Tuscaloosa, Ala ..

1207

deficiency appropriation for .

1038

Valdosta, Ga ...

1208

deficiency appropriation for Webster City, Iowa..
deficiency appropriation for Westminster, Md ..
deficiency appropriation for Woonsocket, R. I ..
deficiency appropriation for Yankton, S. Dak.

1039 1208 1039 1208 1039 1208 1039 320

appropriation for

429

York, Nebr .

1208

deficiency appropriation for

1039

authority for sites revoked on failure to ac-

quire suitable site, etc ..

321

dimensions required .

321

site for municipal building, Washington,

D. C., authorized ..

321

contract for construction ; half from Dis-

trict revenues

321

appropriation for .

429

sale of old custom-house, Kansas City,

Mo ....

322, 1209

proceeds for enlarging post-office, etc. ,

building

1209

cost ; contracts .

1209

2198

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts-Continued . Page.

construction of new post-office, Saint Louis, .

Mo ..

322

appropriation for

429

limit of cost increased .

1211

Public Buildings, Omnibus Acts-Continued. Page.

examination as to sufficiency of certain

buildings

326

appropriation for

430

examination and report on postal situation

acquiring new building site, New Orleans,

La ...

322

estimates, etc. , for new building

322

appropriation for

429

construction of new building, Providence ,

R. I.; acceptance of donated site...

sale of old building

322

appropriation for

429

Wheeling, W. Va ....

323

appropriation for .

429

limit of cost increased, Macon, Ga .... 523, 1210

commission to purchase site for new post-

office, New York

323

to recommend new building, etc ..

323

appropriation for

429

acquiring site for, Toledo, Ohio ; selection,

cost, etc

323, 1212

recommendation , etc. , for new build-

ing

324

appropriation for

429

deficiency appropriation for

1039

Des Moines, Iowa

324

recommendation, etc. , for new build-

ing

324

appropriation for .

429

sale of old building, Buffalo, N. Y .; price . 324

enlargement of building site, Los Angeles,

Cal .

324

Honolulu and Hilo, Hawaii

326

Albuquerque, N. Mex ..

326

Yonkers, N. Y

326

preparation of plans, etc. , Columbus, Ohio . 326

provision for Department of Justice build-

ing repealed..

326

open spaces required for fire protection

327

conflicting laws repealed ....

327

condemnation proceedings for sites in Dis-

trict ...

1213

corrections, Scranton, Pa.

745

Moberly, Mo ..

745

Columbia, Mo ..

745

Crookston, Minn

745

Public Buildings and Grounds, D. C.,

appropriation for assistant engineer, clerks,

etc

151, 886

for overseers, gardeners, etc.

151, 886

for watchmen

151, 886

to receive free medical attendance.. 152

for watchman, Washington's birthplace 152,

886

for contingent expenses

152, 886

for improvement and care of grounds . 458,

1122

Potomac Park .

459

bathing beach removed

459

construction authorized

324

appropriation for .

429

unexpended balances of prior acts cov-

ered in..

324

playgrounds . half from District revenues ..

1122 459, 1123

maximum, concrete, etc. , pavements . 460,

1123

construction authorized of new building,

for care, etc., grounds of Executive De-

Burlington, Vt .

325

partments, etc.

460, 1123

sale of old building.

325, 1209

for trees, etc. , Library and Capitol

appropriation for

429

grounds

1123

temporary building; cost.

1210

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

sale on completion of new building.. 1210 construction of new building, Lincoln,

for employing engineer for Sherman statue

460, 1123 460

for Grant memorial.

460

for improvement of Executive Mansion

Nebr., adjacent to post-office, etc .. 1209 sale of present building for municipal

grounds

1123

for repairs, etc. , Executive Mansion . 460, 1123

purposes .

1209

for office building for the President ..

460

proceeds; reversion .

1209

site for, Richmond , Va. , condemnation

for extraordinary repairs, etc. , Execu-

tive Mansion .

460

value increased .

1210

for rent, offices for President

460

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

for fuel, etc., Executive Mansion 460, 1123

additional buildings for Engraving and

for greenhouses ..

1123

Printing Bureau; cost ..

1211

for portrait of the President

1123

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

for lighting; maximum

461, 1123

purchase of site, Atlanta, Ga .; cost in-

creased

1211

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

securing site for addition to post-office

part paid from District revenues .. 461 , 1123

for electric lights

461 , 1123

for repairs to water pipes, etc.

461 , 1124

for telegraph, Capitol to Departments

building, Washington, D. C

1211

and Printing Office

461, 1124

nominal cost, site for, Oklahoma City, Okla . 1212

for Washington Monument .

461, 1124

purchase of site authorized for hall of rec-

ords, Washington, D. C ..

1212

for portrait of William McKinley .

462

for additional pay, officer in charge .. 511 , 933

deficiency appropriation for .

1039

preliminary plans, limit of cost

1039

purchase of sites ; requirements ..

325, 1213

valid title necessary before plans, etc. ,

deficiency appropriation for Sherman

statue .

758

for Executive Mansion and grounds.. 1046

under charge of Chief of Engineers .

152

made

325, 1213 unlawful trespassers to be ejected ...

152

rent of buildings on purchased sites; pro-

ceeds

325, 1213

part of expenses to be paid from District

revenues

152

advertising; proposals, etc

326 use of, for public ceremonies forbidden

152

construction contracts to provide for liqui-

Public Charge,

dated damages for delay ; remission . 326 admission of aliens likely to be a, ex-

minimum area for sites ; exposure to streets . 1213

cluded ..

1214

INDEX .

2199

Public Documents, reserved sets, if not called for in two years, to be bound and distributed .. binding of prior deliveries ..

Page .
746 746

Public Domain ( see Public Lands) ,

Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service ( see

also Quarantine Service ) ,

appropriation for Surgeon-General, clerks,

etc

875

for printing, books, etc ..

1112

deficiency appropriation for laboratory

building

1037

name of Marine-Hospital Service changed

to .

712

officers, etc. , continued

712

duties and funds transferred ..

712

salaries of Surgeon-General and other of-

ficers

712

officers in charge of divisions to be assist-

ant surgeons-general .

712

senior officer to be assistant in charge .

713

rank of officers in charge of divisions

713

use of service in time of war

713

hygienic laboratory, advisory board

713

composition of board ; civilian members. 713

compensation; term of service

713

chief of divisions; pay

713

director; pay, etc ..

713

assignment of passed assistant surgeons,

etc

713

conferences with boards of health, quaran-

tine authorities, etc ...

713

annual conferences of health authorities .. 714

special conference of State, etc. , health

authorities

714

collection of mortality , etc. , statistics ; pub-

lication

714

rules, etc., to be prescribed by the Presi-

dent ..

714

annual report

714

medical officers of, to examine alien immigrants on arriving ; reimbursement. 1217

Public Lands (see also General Land Office , and Forest Reserves),
appropriation for registers and receivers .. 451 , 1114

for contingent expenses

451 , 1114

for depositing moneys..

452, 1115

for expenses, timber depredations .. 452, 1115

for protecting from fraudulent entry, etc. 452, 1115

for swamp-land claims, etc ..
for protecting forest reserves for hearings in land entries . for reproducing plats of surveys for examinations, desert lands . for preserving records.. for transcripts of records for surveying .. for custodian Casa Grande ruin

452, 1115 452, 1115 452, 1115 452, 1115 452, 1115
453 453, 1116 453, 1116 454, 1117

Fort Sherman Reservation, Idaho . 454 , 1117

for surveyors-general and their clerks . 162, 897

deficiency appropriation for registers and

receivers ........ 20, 31, 573, 1055 , 1074, 1077

for contingent expenses -

21, 574, 587, 1055

for depositing moneys

21, 1056

for timber depredations, etc.

21 ,

589, 1056, 1074

for inspectors ..

21

for special inspectors .

21, 1054

for reproducing records, Bismarck, N.

Dak

21

for A. W. Barber .

21

for surveying...

31, 587, 589, 1074, 1076

Public Lands- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for surveying

private land claims.

31, 587, 1074

for Alaska ..

31

for Crater Lake Park..

571

for Mrs. Alice Gershel

571

for Roland C. Nichols .

571

for Albert E. Rose ..

571, 1055

for North American Transportation and

Trading Company

572

for reimbursing State of Washington... 572

for Emma L. Taylor

572

for certain deputy surveyors ..

572, 1057

for surveyor-general, Arizona .

573

for surveyor-general, Minnesota ....

573

for mineral lands reports, Montana and

Idaho

574, 1056

for protecting forest reserves .

574, 1074

for surveying boundary Colorado, New

Mexico, and Oklahoma .

574

for survey Fort Buford Reservation ... 574

for Yellowstone Park

574

for surveyor-general, Montana ..

587

for resurvey, Chickasaw lands ..

587

for surveying lands in Indian Territory . 587

for hearings.

1056

for surveyors-general's offices .

1056

for George A. S. O'Brien ..

1057

for H. V. A. Ferguson

1057

for survey of Mesa Verde, Colo ...

1057

for John L. Stevens, Des Moines River claims commissioner ..
Alaska districts reduced to one additional educational grant to Utah.. affidavits in entries may be made before
additional judicial officers .......... taken out of county where land located . fees for services .. penalty for excessive fees ..

1057 20 188
63 64 64 64

Chippewa Indian reservations, Minn . , pine

lands ; sales of timber .

400

forestry lands reserved...

402

agricultural lands open to homestead

entries ..

403

commutation allowed homestead settlers

on ceded Sioux Reservation .

203

Crater Lake National Park, Oreg. , estab-

lished

202

boundaries; regulations .

202

settlement, etc. , forbidden

203

declaration of opening to entry, in Idaho,

ceded by Shoshone and Bannock

Indians .

1997

in Oklahoma, ceded by Wichita, etc. ,

Indians .

1975

Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache Indians 1975

deficiency in receipts from, for agricultural

colleges, to be paid by United

States

803

desert-land entries, by Colorado Cooperative Colony, allowed further time.. 907

Yakima County, Wash. , time extended

for final proof .

548

district established, Great Falls, Mont .... 171

forest-reserve settlers, allowed two years

to file claim, etc

106

grant to California in lieu of, occupied by

Mission Indians

822

Colorado Springs, Colo. , for water supply 184 Clallam County, Wash. , for county use.. 770

for Denver, Colo. , water supply, South

Platte Forest Reserve .

716

to Idaho .

330

Juneau, Alaska .

773

2200

INDEX .

Public Lands- Continued.

Page.

grant to Montrose, Colo. , for reservoir pur-

poses .

841

Rochford Cemetery Association , S. Dak. 840

hearings in land entries; compulsory at-

tendance of witnesses

790

homestead certificates for lands in Alabama

allowed in lieu of certain railroad

lands ...

1222

homestead entries allowed on part of Col-

ville Indian Reservation, opened to

settlement

803

homestead locations in Alaska..

1028

entries up to 320 acres allowed

1029

indemnity school lands confirmed to Ne-

braska ..

105

lands ceded by Wichitas, etc. , open to town

site commutations

63

manual of surveying instructions, 1902, etc. ,

made part of surveying contracts... 120

oil-mining claims assessments on placer

locations ....

825

Oklahoma, town site proceeds, Wichita,

etc., cession to be used for public

works; additional

506

on Fort McKinney abandoned reservation,

granted to Buffalo, Wyo .

908

opening to settlement of relinquished portion Walker River Reservation, Nev. 261

pasture lands on abandoned military reser-

vations allowed homesteaders; con-

ditions .....

283

provisions for Philippine .

695

receipts from, devoted to irrigation in cer-

tain States and Territories ..

388

exception, 5 per cent for educational,

etc. , purposes ..

388

deficiency for agricultural colleges

388

reclamation fund for irrigation established . 388

relief of settlers on wagon-road grants .... 733

restoration to public domain of Cheyenne

River agency, etc. , lands .

2035

Fort Sill subagency lands, Okla .

2026

Kiowaand Comanche agency lands, Okla . 2007

part of Mission Indians lands, California . 1970

additional ...

2005

portion of Washington Forest Reserve . 1969 resurvey of lands, San Diego County, Cal. 728

rights of settlers on extended Navajo Res-

ervation, Ariz., confirmed ..

657

second homestead entries permitted set-

tlers prior to May 17, 1900 ..

203

restriction on commutation ..

203

selections in lieu of school sections in

abandoned military reservations,

confirmed ...

disposal of school sections

823

by Washington in lieu of school lands, confirmed ..
in Mississippi by I. I. Barber on ceded Blackfeet Reservation , Mont. ,
in lieu of forest land , confirmed .... town site entries extended to ceded Indian
lands, Minnesota .
town site patent to Basin City, Wyo court-house and public school squares ..

756 1503
955
820 95 96

Ute Reservation, Colo. , open to homestead

entries .

384

Wind Cave National Park, S. Dak. , estab-

lished ..

765

withdrawal from public entry for irriga-

tion works .

388

Public Library, D. C.,

appropriation for

.594, 960

deficiency appropriation for cataloguers

11

for books..

11

transfer ofbooks from departments, etc. , to 865

Public Printer,

Page.

appropriation for, clerks

.128,862

to permit use of new Government Printing

Office building by Grand Army,

1902

303

Public Printing and Binding,

appropriation for Public Printer, clerks..128, 862

for contingent expenses

.128,862

for Congress...

.479, 1145

Congressional Record

.479, 1145

Rebellion Records; destruction of

plates.. for Departments, etc ..

1145 480, 1145

card indexes, etc. , Library of Con-

gress ....

480

division of allotment; Agricultural re-

port not included .... manifold blanks, files, etc.

481 , 1146 481

for leaves to employees

481 , 1146

for printing, etc. , Postal Laws and Regulations; sale.
Historical Register of the Army Opinions of Assistant Attorney- Gen-
eral, Post-Office Department .......

107 928
1166

deficiency appropriation for leaves to em-

ployees .. for Congress, etc ..

27, 1069 27, 31 , 285, 1069

for Treasury Department .. for Interior Department..
for Court of Claims .

27, 1069 27, 285, 1069
27

for Post-Office Department

94, 1069

for Department of Agriculture. for War Department .....

94 94, 1069

for Library of Congress . for Department of Justice for Navy Department .

94, 1069 118,774 285, 1069

for night messengers at Congress .. 583, 1069

for John G. Ames .

583

allotment of Congressional Record to Con-

gress increased

786

census work to be done at Government

Printing Office

53

Congressional Directory to be bound in cloth for distribution by Senators and Members
franks for sending seeds to be printed . printing authorized of Nautical Almanac . printing ordered ; biographical Congres-
sional Directory compilation of river and harbor im-
provements laws
bulletins of calendars of Jefferson, Monroe, and Madison correspondence ..
bulletin on irrigation in California, additional ...
commercial relations, 1901 compilation ofbankrupt laws, forms, etc. Gazetteer of the Philippine Islands ....

583 741 740
1773
375
1768
1768 1768 1774 1765

index to reports of Chief of Engineers,

1866-1900

375

iron ore deposits, Lake Superior region . 1763

Jefferson's Morals of Jesus of Nazareth . 1769

Land Decisions ...

1767

Louisiana purchase papers

1768

oration on President McKinley, by Hon.

John Hay ...

1774

memorial addresses on Lincoln, Gar-

field, and McKinley...

1771

Pensions Decisions ...

1767

proceedings of Schley court of inquiry,

etc

1165

report of Commission on Porto Rico

laws ..

1765

report of Commission to the Five Civil-

ized Tribes, 1901, additional ....... 1769

INDEX .

2201

Public Printing and Binding-Continued. printing ordered ; report of Commissioner of Pensions, 1901 , extra copies ............. report of Daughters of the American Revolution .... report of Director of the Mint, 1901 .. report of Gettysburg National Park Commission
report of governor of Oklahoma, 1901 , additional..
report of Librarian of Congress, 1901 . report of Managers Volunteer Soldiers'
Home, additional ...... report of Senate Committee on Inter-
oceanic Canals ..... report on diseases of cattle . report on geology, etc. , of Black Hills
region report on oil, gas, and coal fields of Texas,
and geology of western Gulf coast .. report on Precious Metals, 1900, addi-
tional ..

Page. 738 1772 1770 742
1767 1764
1764 1766 743 1769
1764 1769

report on rural free delivery, 1900-1901 .. report on Southern Appalachian region .. Review ofthe World's Commerce, 1901 .. revised course of study for Indian
schools special report on diseases of the horse..

1769 1768 1766
1768 745

regulation of Geological Survey publica-

tions ..

741

Public Roads, appropriation for inquiries .....

302, 1165

Public Schools, D. C. ,

appropriation for board of education ,

officers ..

603, 967

for teachers .

603, 968

for night schools and kindergartens .. 604 , 968

for janitors and care of buildings ..... 604 , 969

for medical inspectors; appointment;

duties ...

969

for rent; repairs ; manual training for fuel; contingent expenses for text-books, etc.; flags ..

605, 970 605, 970 605, 970

for buildings; sites ...

605, 970

deficiency appropriation for manual-train-

ing school building

11,560

equipment, etc. , continued .

560

for fuel

560, 774

for contingent expenses .

560

authority to construct buildings by day

labor if bids excessive .

971

Public Works, Philippines,

mineral lands excluded from grants for... 706

Publications Division, Department of Agricul

ture, appropriation for salaries...
for general expenses farmers' bulletins; distribution assistant editors, artists, etc ...

299, 1161 299, 1161 299, 1161 299, 1161

distribution, etc

299, 1162

Pueblo, Colo. ,

terms of court at ..

833

Pueblo Indians, N. Mex.,

appropriation for special attorney ...... 265 , 999

Puerto Cabello, Venezuela,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Puerto Cortez, Honduras, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Puget Sound Navy-Yard, Wash. ,

appropriation for ordnance tools, etc

666

for public works ...

674, 1187

for purchase of site, etc. , naval maga-

zine .

678

Puget Sound, Wash.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of water-

way to Lakes Union and Washing-

ton .

347

for improvement of; removing log jam . 370

for lighting..

433, 1094

Pulaski, General,

appropriation for statue of, etc.

908

commission to select site, etc.

908

Pullman, J. W. ,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

1047

Purify, Thomas,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

213

Purington, Mary L. ( widow) ,

pension increased ...

1573

Put in Bay, Ohio,

appropriation for fish hatchery .......... 1106

Puyallup Agency, Wash. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of

258, 994

Puyallup Indian Reservation, Wash. ,

appropriation for commissioner, sale of

lands .

262, 997

Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

on ..

258, 993

Quapaw Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 252, 988

sale of surplus school land authorized ; dis-

tribution ...

997

fund for education to be paid treasurer of

tribe .....

997

Quarantine Laws,

applied to trade with Philippines ..

711

Quarantine Service (see also Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service ) ,

appropriation for maintenance..

450, 1112

for printing, etc. deficiency appropriation for
for repairs to vessels .

450, 1112 29, 1072 1036

for station, Astoria, Oreg ..

1036

Quarantine Stations,

appropriation for South Atlantic, protect-

ing

423

for purchase of sites in Florida, etc ....... for San Diego, Cal .
steam launch...

423 1091 424

for building, etc. , Portland , Me .

1091

for buildings, etc. , Pensacola, Fla..

1091

for Brunswick, Ga. , site, etc ..

1091

for Honolulu .

1091

Quarantine Stations for Neat Cattle, appropriation for maintenance .
Quartermaster- General,

290, 1151

to investigate claims of Confederate soldiers

for property taken in violation of sur-

render at Appomattox ...

43

Quartermaster-General's Office, War Depart-

ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc .. for inspectors of army supplies for rent ..
Quartermaster's Department,

150, 884 150
151, 886

appropriation for sergeants ; longevity

930

for pay of officers ; longevity

510, 931

for regular supplies

514, 935

post bakeries; schools, etc. forage, stationery, etc ..

514, 935 514, 935

printing ; purchases ..

514,936

for equipping officers' post schools ..... 936

2202

INDEX .

Quartermaster's Department- Continued.

Page. Quincy, Ill.,

appropriation for incidental expenses .. 514, 936 appropriation for improvement of Missis-

extra-duty pay, etc. interments; furniture, etc.

514, 936 514,936

sippi River at Warsaw to ..

care, etc., of horses .

515 , 937 lot in Woodland Cemetery conveyed to

for purchase of horses; limit

515 , 937 rebuilding draw of bridge over Mississippi

purchase from officers on change of

River, authorized.....

station .

937 | Quincy, Mass.,

for barracks and quarters .

515, 937 purchase authorized of site for public

change of posts, Indianapolis, Colum-

building

bus, and Buffalo ........

515

appropriation for

limit to civilian employees

516, 937 Quo Warranto, D. C.,

additional land, Omaha, Nebr ..

937 court to fix time for answer

for post exchanges, etc ..

516, 937

Page. 365 365 95
120
320 429 544

for shelter, etc. , army in the Philip-

R.

pines

516, 938

for transportation ..

516, 938

sale of transports forbidden .

938

due land-grant roads not bond

aided

516, 938

rates; condition

517,938

balances for Alaska roads, etc. , reap-

propriated limit of draft animals

517 517,939

transport service continued ..

939

for clothing, camp and garrison equi-

Raber, Philip W., payment to
Raccoon Creek, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of.... ................... Race, Charlotte H. (mother),
pension . Racine Reef, Wis.,
appropriation for light station, etc Racine, Wis.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor.

1452 350 1297 1093 344

page...

517,939 Radcliffe, Samuel J.,

for post hospitals; Hot Springs, Ark . 517, 939 pension increased,

1685

buildingatVancouver Barracks, Wash . 939 Rader, Michael,

for hospital stewards' quarters .

517,939 pension increased .

1620

for shooting ranges, etc

517,939 Rafferty, Rosetta E. (widow),

for general hospitals

517 pension increased .

1695

for warehouse, Omaha, Nebr .

730 Railey, Anthony J.,

for storehouse, Schuylkill Arsenal .

1130 pension increased ..

1484

repairs .

1130 Railroad Routes, Postal Service,

deficiency appropriation for regular sup-

plies ..

29, 586, 589, 1073, 1076

reappropriation

1045

for incidental expenses... 29, 586, 589, 1073

appropriation for mail transportation by .. 115, 1172

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by...

1061

for transportation . 29, 586, 589 , 1073, 1076, 1077

Morgan's Louisiana and Texas Rail-

road and Steamship Company

1045

forclothing, and camp and garrison equi-

page ..

29, 586

for barracks and quarters for headstones, soldiers' graves

29, 586, 589 29,

586, 1073 , 1076, 1077

for burial of indigent soldiers ..

29

Railroads,

punishment for robberies, etc. , on , in the

Territories

727

rules for admission of aliens by, to be pre-

scribed

1221

Railroads, Commissioner of, appropriation for, clerk, etc. office to terminate June 30, 1903 . June 30, 1904 ..

455, 1119 456 1119

for post, Philippine Islands for shooting ranges, etc for Fort Brady, Mich. , rebuilding for hospitals for Fort Snelling, Minn

1045 Railroads, D. C. ,

1045 joint use of union station and terminals by

1045

connecting ...

918

1045 Railway Adjustments, Postal Service, 1045 appropriation for superintendent, etc ... 165, 900

for reimbursing, forage furnished Marine

Corps ....

1053

supplies furnished Marine Corps .

1053

Quarters, Army,

appropriation for

515, 937

deficiency appropriation for . Quebec, Canada,
appropriation for consul at

29, 586, 589 82, 814

Queenstown, Md ., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 336
Qui-nai-elt Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 256, 992 Quick, James T. ,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 216

Railway Companies,

granted rights of way through Indian Ter-

ritory.

47

Railway Mail Service,

appropriation for superintendent; em-

ployees

115, 1172

assignments limited ..

1173

for substitute clerks ; vacation allowed .. 115, 1173

for acting clerks in place of injured .. 115 , 1173

for traveling expenses ...

115, 1173

for miscellaneous expenses ..

116, 1173

for per diem, assistant superintendents . 116, 1173

Quil-leh-ute Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 256, 992

Quinby, John, payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

deficiency appropriation for acting clerks and death allowances .
for rent, Washington punishment for unlawful entry of car or
compartment...

759 759
1176

Quincy Bridge Company, may rebuild drawbridge across Missis-
sippi River, Quincy, Ill ...

assaulting postal clerk while on duty ... 1176
Railway Post- Office Cars, 120 appropriation for postal service............ 115, 1172

INDEX .

2203

Railway Tariffs,

Page. 1 Raulett, John S.,

penalty for failing to file or observe ...... 847 pension increased .

"Rainbow," Schooner,

Raven Mining Company,

Page. 1334

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

mining locations permitted , Uintah Res-

count of Rainy River, Minn.,

224

ervation ....

264

66

"Raven," Ship,

bridge authorized across, in Itasca County . 801 payment of French spoliation claim on

time forconstructing dam across, extended . 485

account of..

218

"Raleigh," U. S. Navy, deficiency appropriation for boilers ....
Ralston, Maggie, now Margaret Baker, pension ...

Ravenscroft, Anthony R., 568 granted honorable discharge
Ray, Andrew, 1354 pension increased..

1699 1413

.Ramsay, Joseph,

Rayel, Catherine (mother) ,

payment to heir at law

1504 pension ...

1749

Rancocas River, N. J.,

| Raymond and Campbell Manufacturing Com-

appropriation for improvement of Lum-

pany,

berton Branch ...

350 payment to

489

Rand, Charles F., pension increased ..

Raymond, Christopher, 1387 ! payment of French spoliation claim to

Randall, Alvira (mother) ,

administrator of .

231

pension .

1666 Raymond, Joshua,

Randall, William P. , may be appointed commander, retired list,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

231

Navy

796 Raymond, William R.,

Randolph, Rebecca (widow) , pension increased ..

pension increased .

1468

1729 Rea, J. N., and D. T. Johnson,

Randolph, William F.,

appropriation for private improvements .. 268

pension . Rands, Harold A. ,

1646 Read, Grace M. (widow),

pension increased .

1541

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 572 Reagan, Penrose W.,

Raney, John,

pension increased.

1271

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

Real Estate,

administrator of ...

212 deeds before notaries in Philippines and

Range and Position Finders, Army, appropriation for installing .

305, 1024

Porto Rico valid as to, in District of

Columbia and Territories ..

88

for coast defense, etc.. "Ranger," Brig,

308, 1026 Real Estate Brokers or Agents, D. C.,

license tax on ..

624

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

Real Estate, D. C. (see also Deeds, D. C. ) ,

count of

232 creation of estates by will

531

Rapid City, S. Dak., appropriation for Indian school .. for additional land ..

272, 1004 1004

release of dower in, proceedings

531

acknowledgment of deeds out of District.. 531

in foreign countries ..

531

Rapid-Fire Guns, Army,

appropriation for, ammunition, etc .... 307 , 1026

Rappahannock River, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 351

Rapple, John,

pension increased ..

1253

title passes on delivery of deed ; on record,

as to creditors, etc.

531

acknowledgment of bonds, etc..

531

implied covenants provision repealed

532

section of Code as to defective dower con-

veyances stricken out .

532

Raritan Bay, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of................. 335

Raritan River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of..

350

for lighting ..

433, 1094

preliminary examination of, to be made ;

South Amboy to Great Beds .......... 380

deeds of trust and mortgages in effect as

absolute deeds

532

absolute title to pass under mortgage or

deed of trust .

532

power of court to direct terms of sale, etc.,

under deeds of trust

533

instruments which may not be recorded .. 533

Rasmussen and Strehlow, payment to

corporations not allowed to deal in ; excep-

1273

tion

533

Rate- Cutting, Railway,

powers of equity courts to require discon-

tinuance of..

848

Rates, Interstate Commerce,

departures from published, deemed an of-

fense

848

not to descend to illegitimate children of

non compos mother ..

537

after acquired, devised by wills subse-

quent to January 17 , 1887 ...

545

rate of taxation ; reassessment of new sub-

divisions ..

616

Ration, Marine Corps,

shore duty, to be same as Army

688

in island possessions, may be same as

educational property not used for private

gain exempt, other taxable ..

616

assessments for street extension benefits

Navy

688

payable in installments ...

616

Ration, Naval,

to be deducted from awards for dam-

modified, established

679

ages

616

substitution

680 sales of, for arrears of taxes

632

extra allowance, night duty, machinists,

Real Estate, Philippines,

etc

680 restriction on buying, holding, etc. , of, by

substitution of desiccated tomatoes for

corporations ..

709

potatoes repealed . commuted , to be paid commissary officer . additional, repealed

680 Real Property,

680 convention with Guatemala, as to tenure,

680

etc., of...

1944

2204

INDEX .

Real Property- Continued . supplementary convention with Britain, as to tenure of..

Page.
Great 1914

Reams, Uriah,

pension increased .

1336

Reardon, Fannie (widow),

pension ..

1487

Reaver, Maggie L. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1465

Rebates, Interstate Commerce,

penalty for giving, etc ..

847

"Rebecca J. Moulton," Schooner,

deficiency appropriation for paying dam-

ages

7

"Rebecca," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of......

226

Rebellion,

militia to be called out to suppress .

776

Rebellion Records, Army,

appropriation for distribution by Fifty-

seventh Congress .

1145

Rebellion Records, Naval,

appropriation for publication .......... 153, 887

Rebok, Horace M.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

575

Receivers in Bankruptcy,

extra allowance to, conducting bankrupt's business for a limited period ....... 797

Receivers of Public Moneys,

appropriation for salaries and commissions,

land offices ....

451 , 1114

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc... 20,

1055, 1074, 1077

for reimbursing ..

31

authorized to compel attendance of wit-

nesses in land hearings .....

790

Reclamation Fund,

established for irrigation ....

388

use of, for irrigation contracts .

389

Record and Pension Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc

149, 884

roster of Union and Confederate

armies to be compiled .. for rent
for pay of officers; longevity. Record, Cynthia M. (daughter) ,
pension .. Recorder of Deeds, D. C.,
limitation on salaries, office of.......

884 151 , 886 510, 932
1266
533

furnishing list of transfers to collector of

taxes repealed ....

533

instruments not to be accepted for record . 533

report of property sold for taxes to be filed

with .

635

Records ofthe Rebellion, Naval, appropriation for publication

153,887

Records ofthe Rebellion, Official,

appropriation for distribution by Fifty-

seventh Congress; plates to be de-

stroyed

1145

Rector, John B.,

deficiency appropriation for salary, to legal representatives of......
Red Cross Conference,
appropriation for expenses of delegates to . Red Cross Convention,

1064 80

convention adapting to maritime warfare , principles of..
Red Lake and Red Lake River, Minn., preliminary examination of, to be made..

1827 379

Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn.,

allotments to specified Indians on

261

sale oflands on , subject to homestead laws . 1009

grant to Minnesota of school sections ..... 1009

Red Lake Indian Reservation, Minn. -Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for expenses of removing,

etc., Indians ..

1010

distribution of proceeds of sale .

1010

independent possession of diminished res-

ervation, etc

1010

regulations, etc.; restrictions

1010

ratification by Chippewa Indians of...... 1010

Red River, Ark. and Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376

Red River, La. ,

appropriation for rectification of ..

367

for lighting mouth of .

433, 1094

bridge authorized across, at Shreveport,

La.

181

Red River, La. , Ark. , Tex. , and Ind. T. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

355

Red River of the North, etc. , Minn. and N.

Dak. ,

appropriation for improvement of..................... 363

Redding, James F. , and others,

reimbursement to, as surety of D. A. J.

Sullivan

1610

Redmon, George S., deficiency appropriation for paying ..... 1059
Redwood Creek, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 368

Reed, Emily Lawrence (widow ),

pension increased ..

1758

Reed, John P. C.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

215

Reed, Oscar,

pension increased...

1247

Reedy, Annie T. (daughter),

pension ..

1588

Reedy, Daniel J. (son),

pension ...

1588

Reem, Adam,

payment to .

489

Reep, John,

pension increased ...

1322

Rees, John J., pension increased .

... 1576

Reeves, Andrew J.,

pension increased

1584

Referees in Bankruptcy,

allowance to, for proofs filed with each

claim

799

limit of compensation .

800

Reform School, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 611,977 Reform School for Girls, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses. 612,977 Reformatories, D. C. (see Charities and Cor-

rections ) .

Refunding Internal- Revenue Taxes,

deficiency appropriation for, illegally col-

lected .

... 8, 1041

Reger, Henry Loor,

pension increased .

1462

Register of the Treasury, appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc. 138 , 872
for extra force, war with Spain work . 138,872 deficiency appropriation for counters, etc. 1034

Register ofWills, D. C. ( see also Probate Court),

appropriation for metallic file cases ; repro-

ducing records, etc ..

596

schedule of fees

541

Registered Letters,

appropriation for indemnity for loss of:

maximum increased

..... 117, 1174

Registers of Land Offices,

appropriation for salaries and commis-

sions

451 , 1114

INDEX .

2205

Register of Land Offices-Continued .

Page .

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc .. 20,

1055, 1074, 1077

authorized to compel attendance of wit-

nesses in hearings

790

Registry of Vessels,

officer or attorney authorized to swear as

to ownership for...

398

Registry System, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, etc

165, 901

for per diem, etc. , superintendents 165, 901

for miscellaneous expenses .

117, 1174

Regulation Firearms Company, United States,

payment to

236

Reichenberg, Austria, appropriation for consul at

82 , 814

Reid, John, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 213

Reilley John A.,

pension increased ..

1462

Reilly Frances M. (widow ) ,

pension increased .

1242

Reindeer for Alaska, appropriation for

457, 1120

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing

E. P. Bertholf ..

19

Relief of American Seamen,

appropriation for, shipwrecked in foreign

countries ...

87,819

deficiency appropriation for ... 32, 587, 590, 1075

Religious Bequests,

refund of tax on ....

406

Religious Orders, etc. , Philippines,

issue of bonds authorized for acquiring

property of..

706

Religious Organizations, D. C., acts relating to, not repealed by Code .... 546

Remington, William J.,

pension increased .

1533

Remson, Elbert N. ,

pension increased ...

1424

Reno, Nev.,

construction of public building authorized

at

320

appropriation for Renovated Butter,
subject to State, etc. , laws . definition special taxes, manufacturers of

428, 1089
193 195 195

special tax laws applicable

195

regulations for manufacturers .

195

tax on manufacture ; stamps ..

196

inspection required .

196

sanitary inspection of factories, etc.

196

marking, etc., required

197

regulations ; confiscation of unwholesome. 197

penalties for violating regulations , etc ............ 197

returns, etc. , by manufacturers ; penalties . 197

Rent,

appropriation for Treasury Department . 141 , 876

for War Department .

151,885

for Navy Department .

156, 890

for Census Office ...

896

for Interior Department.

162, 897

for Civil Service Commission

162, 897

for Post-Office Department .

167, 902

for Department of Labor .

169,905

for temporary offices for President ..... 460

for District of Columbia government .. 595 , 960

for Department of Justice

1140

deficiency appropriation for, Treasury De-

partment

554, 1034

for Navy Department .

565

for Department of Justice

577

for Department of Commerce and Labor 1081

Rent, Light, and Fuel, Post-Offices,

Page.

appropriation for, first, second, and third

class offices ..

111 , 1169

ten-year leases permitted deficiency appropriation for

111 , 1169 23, 32, 590, 759

Rent of Court Rooms, appropriation for

476, 1141

deficiency appropriation for .. 25, 579, 1066 , 1077

Replerin, D. C.,

addition to affidavit in .

544

undertaking by plaintiff's agent allowed.. 544

mailing notice of publication if defendant

not found ..

544

possession by coroner .

544

Reporting Proceedings in Congress,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives ..

127, 861

Senate .

124, 857

Representatives in Congress,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age

124, 858

for clerk hire .......

127, 861

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion

581 , 1067

number of copies of Congressional Record

to, increased .

786

to receive one copy of Revised Statutes and

of supplements -

631

Reproducing Plats of Surveys,

appropriation for..

457,

Reservations, Forest (see Forest Reserves) .

Reserve Cities, National Banks,

population required to insert a city as one of the......

Reserve Militia,

militia otherthan organized to be known as

Resident Commissioners,

1115
1223 775

two, to the United States to be chosen by

Philippine legislature ; salary ...... 694

Restaurants, etc., D. C.,

license tax on; exemptions .

625

Restraints of Trade, Unlawful, appropriation for enforcing laws against .. 904

Retained Bounty Fund,

covered into the Treasury ; payment of

bounties

556

Retired Judges,

appropriation for salaries

169, 905

Reve, J. A. ,

appropriation for

269

Revenue- Cutter Service,

appropriation for general expenses .... 434, 1096

for seal, etc. , fisheries, Alaska .

435, 1096

for enforcing anchorage regulations, New

York and Chicago ..

.435, 1096

in Saint Marys River

.435, 1096

Kennebec River, Me .

1097

for contingent expenses

435

for longevity pay, officers ..

435

for cutter for Saint Marys River...

435

for launch, Astoria, Oreg..

435

for revenue cutter, Philadelphia . 435, 1097

for revenue cutter for Maine coast

1097

deficiency appropriation for expenses .

29,

585, 1041

for longevity pay, officers

558

for repairs, etc. , " Winona "

558

for equipment, steamer on Great Lakes . 558

on Pacific coast ..

558

for Guy N. Stockslager .

558

officers classified .

100

present active list not increased ..

100

relative rank with armyand navy officers .. 100

position when cooperating with Navy.. 100 officers to have no control over vessels,

officers, and men of Navy .....

100

2206

INDEX .

Revenue- Cutter Service-Continued .

Page.

naval officers not to control Revenue-Cut-

ter Service; exception ...

100

pay and allowances corresponding with

army rank

100

retirement at sixty-four .

100

from incapacity

100

retiring board; composition and duties .

100

retired waiting-orders list

101

removals for cause.

101

promotions ; examinations

101

retired pay..

101

cadets' term increased to three years..

869

medals of honor, relief of Arctic whaling

fleet bestowed upon Bertholf, Sec-

ond Lieut. Ellsworth P

492

Call , Dr. Samuel J ..

492

Jarvis, First Lieut. David H.

492

officers allowed only necessary expenses

on life-saving duty.

558

promotion authorized of Joseph M. Simms

in

1490

purchase of land , Wilmington, N. C. , au-

thorized

497

Revenue from Customs,

deficiency appropriation for collecting ...

7,

29,557 , 585, 1036, 1076

on articles from Philippines to be used for

the islands ...

54

Revenue Marine (see Revenue-Cutter Service ) .

Review ofthe World's Commerce, 1901, printing ordered

1766

Revised Statutes,

amended section 82

735

section 158

826

section 548

64

section 554

825

section 607

825

section 658

199

section 676

825

section 683

630

section 852

396

section 1049

825

section 1315

410

section 1339

228

section 1513

686

section 1580 .

679

section 1581

680

section 1797 .

152

section 2294.

63

section 2399

120

section 2529

715

section 2544

715

section 2555

190

section 2593

485

section 2743

730

section 2970

753

section 3339

96

section 3362

714

section 3394

715

section 4075

386

section 4076 .

386

section 4078

386

section 4139

398

section 4314

399

section 4400

34

section 4698 section 4708

773, 944 920

section 4716

750

section 4883

95

section 4887 section 4892 section 4896 section 4902

1225 1226 1226 1227

section 4929

193

section 5543

397

section 5544

397

Revised Statutes-Continued.

Page.

repealed section 232 ..

780

section 1584 ..

680

sections 1625-1660

780

section 2035 ..

556

distribution to Senators and Representa-

tives directed ...

631

appropriation for

631

Revised Statutes, D. C.,

amended, section 751 .

825

Rerley, John, pension increased

1472

Revolutionary Trophies,

certain, at Allegheny Arsenal loaned to Sons of American Revolution ............. 737

loaned Morgan Memorial Association

743

Reynolds, Henry P., pension increased

1640

Reynolds, Hugh J., pension increased .

1629

Rhea, John S.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses ...

582

Rhea, W. F.,

deficiency appropriation for contested -elec-

tion expenses ...

582

Rheims, France,

appropriation for consul at

83, 816

Rheuby, William, pension increased ....

1283

Rhinelander and Hartshorne,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 223

Rhoades, Jennie (widow), pension increased ..

1695

Rhodabeck, Jesse C., pension increased ..
Rhode Island,

1419

adjustment of claim for raising volunteers . 586

deficiency appropriation for expenses rais-

ing volunteers .

30, 1078

Rhode Island Judicial District,

circuit court terms changed ..

199

Rhodes, Isaac,

pension increased .

1523

Rhodes, William P. , pension increased.

1707

Ribble, Cornelia S., pension increased ..

1703

Rice, Calvin A. ,

granted honorable discharge..

1366

Rice, Ellen W. (widow) , pension increased ..

1470

Rice Irrigation and Improvement Association, may construct locks, etc. , in Mermentau

River, La

766

Rice, Minnie M. (daughter) , pension .

1365

Rich, Lizzie I. (widow),

pension increased .

1531

Richards, Jacob E. , pension increased ..

1709

Richardson and Burgess,

deficiency appropriation for payment to..

9

Richardson, Horace L., pension increased....

1433

Richardson, Hugh R. , pension increased ..

1268

Richardson, Hon . James D. , Representative

from Tenn.,

made member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission ..

486

Richardson, Loren S. , pension increased .

1248

Richardson, William W., pension increased ..

1470

INDEX .

2207

Richmond College,

Page.

payment to, for occupation and injuries .. 234

Richmond, Ind. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for .

428, 1089

Richmond, Ky.,

limit of cost increased , public building .

311

appropriation for

425

terms of court ..

58

Richmond, Va.,

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land..

313

appropriation for; site designated ..

425

for public building, additional land... 989

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, additional, for site'

1039

value of site for public building, increased . Rickards, Eliza A. (widow),
pension increased .. Ricketson, Daniel, and Son,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ....

1210 1543 224

Rider, John Q. A. , pension increased ..
Ridgway, Jacob, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1540 222

Ridinger, Daniel,

pension increased ..

1461

Rife, Jacob,

payment to estate of ........

489

Rife, John W.,

payment to..

489

Riflemen, Army,

appropriation for expert; allowance ...... 929

Rifles, Army Siege,

appropriation for, equipments, etc ..... 308 , 1026

Riga, Russia, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Rigg, Jarrot F.,

pension increased ...

1672

Right of Way,

general provisions for, through Indian Ter-

ritory to railway companies ....

47

lands which may be taken ..

47

damages; maps .

47

determination of compensation

47

annual rental to Indians ..

regulation of charges, etc .. crossings, etc.; automatic signals ..

record of mortgages in Interior Depart-

ment

50

privileges extended to all companies on

application ..

50

time for construction of roads may be

extended two years

50

repeal of former acts

50

for irrigation, Southern Ute Reservation,

Colo

266

granted, Choctaw Point, Ala ..

119

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla ..

821

Gasparilla Island Reservation, Fla .

384

Lock No. 3, Upper White River, Ark

41

Lock No. 4, Black Warrior River, Ala.. 189

Locks 2 and 3, Big Sandy River, W. Va . 1030

Oklahoma and Indian Territories .

43

San Francisco Mountains Forest Reserve . 907

Vancouver Military Reservation , Wash. 1028

time extended for, Nez Perces Indian

lands, Idaho ...

198

through Omaha and Winnebago Reser-

vation, Nebr

183

Rightmire, William H.,

pension increased .

1406

Rights of Person and Property,

Page.

declaration of, government in Philippines . 692

Riley, Roderick R. ,

payment to..

487

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,

appropriation for consul-general at . for clerk hire ...

81, 813 86, 818

Ripley, Allen M.,

pension increased .

1568

Ripley, David S.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of....

216

Ritch, James J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

211

Ritchie, L. W. ,

payment to

490

Ritchie, Wiliam F., pension increased .

1747

Rittenhouse, Charles A. ,

pension increased ..

1704

River and Harbor Improvements,

appropriation for harbors, etc.; contracts . 331,

408, 462, 1124

for rivers, etc.; contracts ..

348, 1124

report on Ohio River bridges

360

diversion of water, Saint Marys River,

Mich

361

preserving level of Lake Superior .

361

expenses of international commission. 362

termination of Missouri River Com-

mission ...

367

for emergencies ..

371

improvements by private, etc. , parties 371

depth of tidal waters ...

371

payment for repairs, etc.

371

surveys, etc. , to be paid from amount

for improvements

371

work by contract or otherwise .

371

allotment of consolidated items..

371

consolidation of contracts

372

for preliminary examinations, surveys,

etc

372

no survey, etc. , unless specially au-

thorized

372

supplemental reports, etc. , not to be

made .

372

board of engineers to consider all reports . 372

duties; employees, etc

372

invitation to Great Britain for interna-

tional commission on boundary

waters ..

373

scope of commission

373

sale of land, etc. , no longer needed for improvements ..
enforcing rules for navigable waters . projects abandoned

373 374374

closing of Ohio River, Neville Island , re-

voked

374

permanent appropriation for gauging Mis-

sissippi River, etc.; statement re-

quired .

374

bridges over Illinois and Mississippi Canal . 374

rules for use of Government canals, etc... 374

penalty for violations ...

375

not affecting law as to injurious depos-

its, New York Harbor

375

compilation of river and harbor laws to

be printed

375

index of engineer reports, 1866 to 1900,

to be printed ..

375

compilation of previous surveys, etc. , to

be made; contents ..

375

report on improvements by, or in connection with, municipalities, etc ...... 375

2208

INDEX .

River and Harbor Improvements-Continued . Page.

preliminary examinations or surveys or-

dered ..

376

review by board .

376

lock and dam Bayou Lafourche, by

Louisiana authorized ...

378

right to use water for canal, Willamette

Falls , Oreg ....

381

Rivers,

appropriation for lighting .

... 433, 1094

Rivers and Harbors,

improvements in Philippines authorized.. 695

Riverside, Cal.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 272 , 1005

Roache, Ben.,

fee-simple patent to ..

1008

Roanoke, Va., terms of court

... 552, 794

Roath, James W.,

pension increased ..

1394

Robb, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of ...

221

Robert, Felix,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of .....

217

Roberts, B. F.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

215

Roberts, Charles M.,

payment of Court of Claims findings to ad-

ministrator of ..

239

Roberts, Henry M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

212

Roberts, John H. ,

pension ..

1603

Roberts, Leroy,

pension increased ..

1575

Roberts, Pauline M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1365

Roberts, William C.,

pension

1499

Robertson, C. C. ,

payment to .

487

Robertson, Drury,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

surviving executor of .

211

Robertson, Harry C., deficiency appropriation for services .....
Robertson, John A. , pension increased .

1067 1481

Robertson, Joseph W. ,

pension increased ..

1552

Robertson, Lucy T., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 215

Robinson, Charles H. ,

payment to

1445

Robinson, Harriet (widow) ,

pension

1593

Robinson, John,

pension increased .

1548

Robinson, John S.,

pension increased .

1386

Robinson, Minerva (widow) ,.

pension

1550

Robinson, Myra W. (widow),

pension increased .

1333

Robinson, Samuel,

deficiency appropriation for extra serv-

ices ..

583, 1069

Robinson, Thomas W. , pension increased .

1275

Robinson, William, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Robison, Almedia J. (widow) , pension ..
Robson, John H., pension increased .

Page. 1632
1737

Rochambeau, Marshal de,

appropriation for family of, dedication of

monument ..

738

Rochambeau, Monument of Marshal de,

invitation extended to French Govern-

ment, dedication of..

737

appropriation for expenses of invited

guests

738

for expenses of dedication ...

741

deficiency appropriation for pedestal , etc.;

location .

12

statue to be admitted free of duty ....

740

Rochester, N. Y. ,

limit of cost increased, public building; ad-

ditional land

312, 1205

appropriation for .

425

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

Rochford Cemetery Association, granted lands for cemetery purposes ; price . 840

Rochford, S. Dak. ,

land for cemetery granted at; price ...

840

Rock Creek Park, D. C.,

appropriation for care and improvement . 603,967 Rock Hall, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 336 Rock Hill, S. C. ,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

318

appropriation for

428, 1089

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1206

Rock Island Arsenal, Ill. ,

appropriation for machinery

458, 1121

for care, etc

458, 1121

for bridge expenses .

458, 1121

deficiency appropriation for replacing

stores destroyed by fire

1045

for rebuilding burned storehouse ...... 1046

Rock River, IU.,

appropriation for improvement of; lock

and dam

364

preliminary examination of. to be made.. 377

Rockport, Mass. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 331

Rocky River, Ohio,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

381

Rodgers, James M.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

215

Roesel, Mrs. A. E.,

payment to

487

Rogers, Daniel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

231

Rogers, Daniel D.,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220 , 228, 232

Rogers, Daniel Dennison,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229

Rogers, Frederick E. ,

pension increased ..

1301

Rogers, George A. ,

payment to

1699

Rogers, Henry G.,

military record corrected ..

1609

Rogers, Joanna (widow),

pension

1560

Rogers, Lebbeus H.,

settlement of liability on bond of H. W.

Howgate ...

1611

INDEX .

2209

Rogers, Lura B. (widow), pension .
Rogers, M. C., pension .
Rogue River Indian War, deficiency appropriation for expenses ....
Roher, Mrs. Rolly, payment of Court of Claims judgment to.
Rohrback, Benjamin F., payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..........

Page. 1269 1366
210
211

Rollins, Andrew,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

231

Rollins, Hiram ,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

231

Rome, Ga.,

limit of cost increased , public building; ad-

ditional land . appropriation for .

314, 1203 425

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing .

1037

Rome, Italy,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

Rome, N. Y. ,

appropriation for public building

1089

Rommel, Joanna (widow) ,

pension ..

1528

Rondout, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Roop, Henry J.,

payment to

489

Ropes, Sarah E. (widow), pension increased ..
Rorer, Helen V. (widow) , pension increased .

1580 ... 1318

Rosario, Argentine Republic,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Rose, A. E.,

deficiency appropriation for salary ............... 1055

Rose, Albert E.,

deficiency appropriation for balance due.. 571

Rose, Charles W.,

pension increased ..

1519

Rose, Daniel T.

pension increased ..

1241

Rose Island, R. I. , appropriation for quarters naval magazine. 677
Rose, William N. , payment of Court of Claims , judgment to . 213
Rosebud Agency, S. Dak.,
appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246 , 983 Rosecrans, General William S.,

committee appointed for ceremonies of

transferring remains of, to Arling-

ton ..

1767

Rosenbarger, Elizabeth (widow ),

pension increased ..

1633

Ross and Simpson,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Ross, John Walton,

restored to active list as medical director,

Navy

797

Ross, Lewis F.,

pension increased .

1523

Roster of Union and Confederate Armies,

compilation of complete, to be made ...

884

Rotan, John A.,

pension increased ..

1518

Rotch, William, jr. , and Abraham Barker,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner .... 224

Rotterdam , Netherlands, appropriation for consul-general at .... for clerk hire ......

81, 813 86, 818

VOL XXXII , PT 2-62

2330

Roubaix, France, appropriation for consul at
Rouch, Peter B., pension increased .

Page. 84, 816
1727

Rouen, France,

appropriation for consul at .

85,817

Rouge River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 361

Roumania, Servia, and Greece,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation...

77,808

Round Valley Agency, Cal. ,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of .

257,993

Round Valley Indian Reservation, Cal.,

appropriation for private improvements

taken on

268

Rountree, Pleasant P.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to .... Rowan, Thomas S.,
pension increased .

210 1381

Rowe, Louis W.,

pension increased .

1742

Rowe, Philip C.,

payment of Court of Claims findings to

administrator of ...

239

Rowe, William B. ,

pension increased .

1336

Royster, J. W.,

payment to ..

488

Ruckle, Jennie C. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1299

Rudy, David, payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 217

Ruggles, William H.,

pension

1511

Rules and Articles of War,

militia when in active service subject to .. 776

Rumple, Hon. J. N. W. , late a Representative

in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

1067

Rumple, Mary H. (widow),

pension .

1653

Rundle and Leech,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner .. 223, 226
Rundle, George, and Thomas Leech,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

219

Runnebaum, Henry,

pension increased .

1373

Runnels, Henry,

pension increased .

1470

Rupp, Joseph,

payment to

489

Rural Free Delivery, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc

165, 900

for rent

167, 902

for division superintendents ..

112, 1170

for special agents; per diem, etc .. 112, 1170

for route inspectors ; per diem .

112, 1171

for division clerks for incidental expenses..

112, 1171 112, 1171

for letter carriers and substation clerks ;

limit .

112, 1171

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex-

penses

23, 576, 759, 1061

for additional quarters .

23

for letter carriers

759

compensation; division special agents .

112

special agents

112

route inspectors

112

clerks

113

carriers; express business permitted

113

substitute carriers

113

report on uniform box to be made ..

113

2210

INDEX .

Rural Free Delivery, Postal Service- Continued .
penalty for malicious injury to boxes, etc administering service oaths by special
agents, etc Rural Free Delivery, 1900-1901,
report on, ordered printed Russell, Amelia A. ( widow) ,"
pension .

Page. 113 113 1769 1344

Russell, Benjamin,

pension increased

1426

Russell, Catharine A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1677

Russell, Daniel D. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of..

215

Russell, Hon. C. A. , late a Representative in Congress,
deficiency appropriation for widow ... Russell, Isaac F. ,
pension increased . Russell, Joseph,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .

1067 1614 230

Russell, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1782

Russell, Seth, and Son,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner

224

Russellville and Logan County Agricultural

and Mechanical Association, Ky.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 210

Russia,

appropriation for ambassador to..

76, 807

for secretary of embassy . for second secretary

77,808 77, 808

Rutan, William D,, credit in accounts of, for lost stamps ..... 1603

Rutherford, Abner D. ,

pension .

1708

Rutherford, Archibald,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

legal representatives of...........

208

Ryan, E. D.,

deficiency appropriation for allowance in

accounts

1054

Ryan, Hon. William H.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses ...

581

Ryan, P. J.,

payment to

1452

S.

"Sabbatus Neptune," Brig, payment of French spoliation claim on account of...
Sabin, George G., pension increased
Sabine Indian Disturbances, pensions to survivors, etc. , of
Sabine Lake, Tex., appropriation for improvement of channel through .....
Sabine Pass, Tex., appropriation for channel connecting Neches and Sabine rivers with.....
addition to funds from Orange and Beaumont ....
preliminary examination of, to be made for channel, from Beaumont and Orange
Sabine Pass, Tex. and La. , appropriation for improvement of........

230 1451 399
355
355 356
383 340

Sabine River, Tex.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of mouth. 355

preliminary examination of, to be made to

Logansport ...

383

Sac and Fox Agency, Iowa,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246, 983

Sac and Fox Agency, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian agent at

246

Sac and For Indian Reservation, Iowa,

appropriation for Indian school ..

272, 1005

deficiency appropriation for Indian

school

23,575

Sac and Fox Indian War,

pensions to survivors, etc. , of..

399

Sac and For Indians ofthe Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 252,989 Sac and For Indians ofthe Missouri,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 252, 989

per capita payment directed ..

267

Sacramento River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of....

369

for lighting

433, 1094

Sag Harbor, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Sage, Ebenezer,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Sager, Ellen A. (widow) ,

pension ..

1528

Saginaw River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of .................... 361

Sailors, Hamilton M.,

payment to .

1651

Saint Albans Iron and Steel Company, claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment 764

Saint Andrews Bay, Fa.,

preliminary examination to be made of

entrances

377

Saint Ann's Infant Asylum, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance

613,979

Saint Charles and Saint Louis County Bridge

Company,

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

Saint Charles, Mo

181

Saint Charles Bay, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Saint Charles College,

claim for use, etc. , to be investigated ..... 234

payment of amount found due ....

235

Saint Charles, Mo. ,

time extended for bridge across Missouri

River at

181

Saint Christopher, West Indies, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Saint Clair Flats Canal,

appropriation for improvement of........ 361

Saint Clair, Hannibal C.,

pension increased ..........

1399

Saint Clair River, Mich.,

deficiency appropriation for removing

wrecks ..

10

Saint Clair Terminal Railroad Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Clairton

Station, Pa ......

58

Saint Cloud, Minn . , appropriation for public building .................... 422

Saint Croix Falls, Minnesota , Improvement Com-

pany,

may dam Saint Croix River, Saint Croix,

Wis

802

Saint Croix Falls, Wisconsin, ImprovementCom-

pany,

may dam Saint Croix River, Saint Croix ,

Wis

802

INDEX .

2211

Saint Croix River,

Page. Saint Louis, Mo. - Continued.

Page.

consent for dam across, Saint Croix Falls,

Wis .

802

appropriation for warehouse for Indian

Service stores

263, 999

Saint Croix River, Wis. and Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 363

Saint Etienne, France,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Saint Francis, Ark.,

bridgeauthorized across Saint Francis River

at

1031

Saint Francis River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of

357

for preventing, cutting through at Wal-

nut Bend

357

bridge authorized across, at Saint Francis . 1031

in Lee County .......

834

for lookouts to protect mail in post-office . 1090

construction of new post-office authorized ;

site ..

322

appropriation for limit of cost increased .

429, 1089 1211

deposit of fund for indigent Choctaws and Chickasaws with subtreasurer ... 177
Saint Louis Ore and Steel Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

Saint Louis River, Minn., preliminary examination of, to be made..
Saint Martin Island, Lake Michigan,

380 "

Saint Francis River, Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 368

Saint Gall, Switzerland,

appropriation for consul-general at .... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

Saint Helena, Great Britain, appropriation for consul at

84,816

Saint Hyacinthe, Quebec, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Saint John, New Brunswick, appropriation for consul at
Saint Johns, Newfoundland,
appropriation for consul at ..

84, 816 84, 816

Saint Johns, Quebec, appropriation for consul at
Saint Johns River, Fla.,

85,817

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion

431

Saint Marys River and Falls, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of; Middle and West Neebish channels ; con-

tracts

361 , 1127

for enforcing anchorage, etc. , regula-

tions ...

435, 1096

for revenue cutter

435

for improvement of Hay Lake Channel . 463

for light-house tender..

1093

deficiency appropriation for sites, range

lights ..

1041

light stations .

1041

diversion of water at Sault Sainte Marie;

conditions

361

appropriation for improvement of Volusia

Bar....

353

of funds for Lake George Channel re-

pealed .

362

Jacksonvilleto the ocean ; contracts . 354, 1126

at Orange Mills flats

354

use of unexpended balances; Sailors' En-

campment

362

for lighting

433, 1094

international commission .

362

Saint Joseph Conrent, Fla.,

Saint Clair Flats Canal ..

362

payment to sisters of..

487

widening canal above locks .

362

Saint Joseph, Mich. ,

Saint Michaels, Azores,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

66 appropriation for consul at ..

and river

343 Saint Patrick," Schooner,

...... 85, 817

Saint Joseph, Mo.,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

bridge authorized across Missouri River at. 36

count of..

220

limit of cost increased, public building;

Saint Paul, Minn. ,

additional land ..

314, 1206 appropriation for public building .

422

appropriation for

425 deficiency appropriation for public build-

deficiency appropriation for ...

1038 :

ing

9

Saint Joseph River, Mich.,

regular term, circuit court of appeals.... 329

appropriation for improvement of ....

343 Saint Petersburg, Russia,

Saint Joseph's Catholic Church, Martinsburg, W. Va. ,
payment to, for use and occupation ...... Saint Lawrence River, N. Y. ,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for delegates to Red Cross conference at . 80

234 Saint Pierre, Saint Pierre Island,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

Saint Stephen, New Brunswick,

tions

349 appropriation for consul at

85,817

bridge across, at Hogansburg, declared a

public structure

34

consent given for dam, to Les Galops Is-

land, N. Y.

392

Saint Louis Bay, Lake Superior,

appropriation for lighting channel .... 433 , 1094 Saint Louis County, Mo.,

dams, etc. , authorized for water supply,

Missouri and Meramec rivers ....

55

Saint Louis Fair (see also Louisiana Purchase

Exposition ) .

acceptance of invitation to Congress to at-

tend dedication services ...

1774

notification of opening, etc. , made ..

1986

postponement .

2011

Saint Louis, Mo.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office ; salaries.

145, 879

for salaries, assay office .

147 , '881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147 , 881

Saint Tammany Parish, La., may bridge Bogue Chitto...
Saint Thomas, Ontario, appropriation for consul at .

839 84, 816

Saint Thomas, West Indies, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Salaries and Allowances, Postal Service,

appropriation for general superintendent,

ete

164, 900

for assistant superintendents ; per diem,

etc

111, 1170

Salaries, Army, computation of monthly rates of ............... 934

Salem , Mass. ,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made

379

Salem, Oreg.,
appropriation for Indian school ....... 272 , 1005 deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 23, 31

2212

INDEX .

Saline Lands, Philippine, provisions for disposal of ....
Salisbury, O. J., deficiency appropriation for mail service..
"Sally," Brig, Cruft, Master,

Page. 705
588

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

218

" Sally," Brig, Stacy, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.

218

" Sally," Brig, Wells, Master,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

233

SalmonFisheries, Alaskan,

appropriation for

450, 1111

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor

828

Salmon, Hon. J. S., late a Representative in Congress,
deficiency appropriation for widow Salomon, Henriette (widow),
pension increased . Salsbury, Lester,
pension increased .

581 1263 1597

Salt Lake City, Utah,

appropriation for public building . terms of district court at ' .

422, 1089 841

Salt River, Ky.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 378

Saltillo, Mexico,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation ...
Samelsberger, Michael, pension increased .
Sammis, John S. ,

76, 807 77,808
1299

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

209

Sampson, Asa E.,

pension ..

1570

Samuels, E., and Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

San Angelo, Tex., terms of court
San Antonio Arsenal, Tex. , appropriation for storehouse ; sewer
San Antonio, Tex., terms of court .

69 458 69, 785

San Carlos Agency, Ariz., appropriation for Indian agent at ... 246, 983

San Diego, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ....

346, 1126

for quarantine station

1091

for steam launch, quarantine station ... 424

additional land for quarantine station ........ 424

San Diego County, Cal. ,

resurvey of certain lands in , directed ..... 728

San Francisco Bay, Cal.,

appropriation for light-house, etc. , South-

ampton Shoal

1093

light-house, etc. , established on South-

ampton Shoal

822

preliminary examination to be made of

Belvedere Harbor ..

376

San Francisco, Cal.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office ; salaries ..

145,879

for salaries, mint at .

146,880

for wages and contingent expenses ... 146 , 881

for mint, new machinery.

448

for marine barracks .

689

for improvement of harbor; removing

Blossom Rock .....

1125

San Francisco, Cal. -Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for mint ........ 9 , 10, 1076

construction of new custom -house author-

ized on old post-office site ....

316

appropriation for .

426, 1089

limit of cost increased, custom-house ..

1203

loan of tents for Knights of Pythias en-

campment

187

removal of Blossom Rock authorized ...

346

San Francisco Mountains Fores ' Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation consolidating and extending . 1991

right of way granted through .............

907

San Gabriel Forest Reserve,

deficiency appropriation for extinguishing fires
San Isabel Forest Reserve, Colo.,
proclamation establishing

574 1988

San Joaquin River, Cal., appropriation for improvement of.... for lighting
San Jos, Costa Rica, appropriation for consul at
San Juan del Norte, Nicaragua, appropriation for consul at..

369 433, 1094
.. 84, 816 ... 82, 814

San Juan, P. R.,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion

675

San Juan River, Nicaragua and Costa Rica,

may be used for Isthmian canal

483

San Luis Obispo, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 346

San Marcos, Tex.,

appropriation for additional ground , fish-

cultural station .....

444

San Pablo Bay, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

... 346, 1126

San Pedro, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor ..

462, 1124

San Salvador, Salvador, appropriation for consul at .
Sand Bar Ferry, Ga.,

...... 84, 816

bridge authorized across Savannah River

at

760

Sand Key, Fla.,

appropriation for cable to Key West ..... 288

Sandbeach, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge...

343

Sanders, John G.,

pension increased ..

1397

Sanderson, Elijah,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Sanderson, Jacob,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

220

Sands, William,

pension increased ..

1725

Sandsbury, John R. ,

pension increased .

1526

"Sandusky, " Ironclad Monitor.

claim for extra compensation, referred to

Court of Claims ...

244

Sandusky, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor. 342

limit of cost increased, public building;

additional land ..

313

appropriation for .

426

Sandusky River, Ohio, preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Sandusky Rolling Mill and Manufacturing

Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

INDEX .

2213

Sandy Bay, Mass.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge..

331

Sandy Hook Bar, N. Y. Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of Ambrose

Channel

463, 1125

Sandy Hook, N. J. , Army Proving Ground,

appropriation for maintenance.

308, 1026

for repairs to tracks; locomotive ; dock. 309 ,

1027

for officers' quarters ; water tower ...... 309

for roads ; storehouse

309, 1027

for barracks ; office

309

Saratoga Springs, N. Y.,

Page.

purchase of public building site, author-

ized

320

appropriation for

429

deficiency appropriation for

1038

limit of cost increased, public building ... 1207

Sare, John A. ,

pension increased....

1583

Sargeant, Daniel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

227, 229, 229, 232

Sargent, Benjamin G.,

pension increased .

1265

for chemical laboratory

309 Sargent, Fitz William,

for building for smokeless powder tests . 309 payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

for sea wall...

309

ministrator of ...

221

for general repairs, etc for passenger and freight boat for brick magazine ...

458, 1121 1121 1121

Saugatuck, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contract

343, 1126

Sanford, Thomas, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .
Sanger, Henry,

Saugerties, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

233 Sauls, Thomas E. ,

pension increased ..

1327

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

Saunders, Zachariah R. ,

administrator of

217 pension increased ..

1357

Sanitarium, National ( see also Battle Mountain Sanitarium, etc. ) ,

appropriation for erection of buildings, Hot

Springs, S. Dak

282

donation of land ..

282

for transportation and maintenance

282

regulations; treatment .

282

change directed in enrollment of bill establishing ...
Santa Catalina Forest Reserve, Ariz.,
proclamation establishing Santa Cruz Bay, Cal.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. Santa Cruz County, Ariz. ,
may issue bonds for court-house and jail . Santa Fe, N. Mex.,

1770 2012 376 304

appropriation for Indian school ....... 272 , 1005 Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Company,

may transfer its property to Atchison, To-

peka and Santa Fe Railway Com-

pany .

405

annual tax to New Mexico and Arizona .. 405

Santa Monica, Cal.,

Sauthoff, Anton,

pension

1750

Sautter, John C.,

pension increased ..

1752

Savage, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .....

223

Savannah, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

337, 1126

forimprovement of waterway to Fernan-

dina

353

for marine hospital

423

bridge authorized across Savannah River

at

104

marine hospital authorized at

75

contracts authorized .......

423

Savannah River, Ga.,

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

for improvement of, Augusta to Savan-

nah

463

bridge authorized across

280

Sand Bar Ferry

760

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

Savannah, Ga .

diers' Home ..

470, 1135 Savings Banks, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

requirements of, modified

diers' Home ... Santa Rita Forest Reserve, Ariz.,
proclamation establishing Santee River, S. C. ,

14, 1073 1989

personal tax on Sawdy, Catharine A. (mother) ,
pension Sawtelle, Gilman,

appropriation for improvement of ........................ 352 payment to legal representatives of ...

Santiago de Cuba,

Sawyer, Jennie M. (widow),

appropriation for consul at

199, 814 pension

for clerk hire ..........
deficiency appropriation for clerk hire .... "Santiago de Cuba," Steamer,
refunded additional tonnage taxes

818 553 Sayles, Fannie T. , etc. ,
duplicate check to be issued to
771 T Scanlon, Margaret (widow),

"Santiago," Steamer,

pension .

refunded additional tonnage taxes

771 Scannell, James,

Santo Domingo,

pension increased ..

104 534 619 1704 239 1511 1610 1714 1384

appropriation for charg d'affaires to .... 76 , 807 Schaefer, Caroline (widow),

Santo Domingo, Santo Domingo,

pension .

1754

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813 Santos, Brazil,

appropriation for consul at

82, 814

Sapelo, Ga.,

appropriation for light station ..

430

Sapp, Charles E.,

payment to

1504

Sarasota Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 339

Scherzer, Charles W. , pension increased.
Schill, August, alias August Silville, pension increased ..
Schindel, S. J. Bayard, credit in accounts ..
Schley Court ofInquiry, etc., proceedings of, ordered printed ..

1661 1437 1488 1765

2214

INDEX .

Schneider, Charles,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to executor of....
Schneider, Rhinehart, granted honorable discharge .
Schofield, Carrie M. (widow), pension increased .
School Lands,

Page. 215 1489 1483

Scott, W. T. , payment to heirs of....
Scott, Wallace L., pension ..
Scott, William H. H., pension increased .
Scovell, Albert D., pension increased .

Page. 240 1721 1303 1305

indemnity selections by States in lieu of, on abandoned military reservations, confirmed ...
Schoolbooks, D. C., exempt from personal tax ..

Seramlin, Harman ,

pension increased .

1496

822 Scranton, Pa.,

limit of cost increased, public building ... 320

620

appropriation for .

426, 1089

Schools, Alaska,

support of, from municipal, etc. , taxes ... 946

Schools, Army,

appropriation for equipping officers'

936

Schooner Ledge, Pa.,

court records, middle district, to be kept

at

549

terms of court

549

provision for public building, in omnibus

act, transposed

745

appropriation for light station ; purchase of

Scriven, Mary V. (widow) ,

right of way.

430 pension .

1556

Schott, William P. , alias Jacob Schott,

| Scroggs, Robert G.,

pension increased ..

1474 pension increased .

1475

Schrader and Ellery,

" Scrub," Sloop,

claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

225

Schram, Daniel, pension increased .
Schroeder, Henry B., pension increased ..
Schulte, or Schuldt, Frederick, charge of desertion removed .
Schuylkill Arsenal, Philadelphia, Pa., appropriation for construction, etc ..
for constructing quartermaster's storehouse ...

1283 1245 1366 458 1130

Scuppernong River, N. C., appropriation for improvement of........................ 351
Sea Otter,

appropriation for protection of, Alaska . 435 , 1096 Seacoast Guns,

appropriation for finishing ................

307, 1025

Seal,

authorized for Department of Commerce

and Labor..

826

Seal Fisheries (see also Alaskan Seal Fisheries ) ,

for repairs, etc. , to storehouse, clothing

appropriation for protecting in Alaskan

depot ...

1130

waters

435, 1096

Schwartz, Gustav,

for agents' salaries and expenses

449, 1111

pension increased .

1259 Seal ofthe United States, Great,

Scientific Work,

deficiency appropriation for recutting .. 552, 1032

of Executive Departments may be trans-

Seaman, Frank,

ferred to Department of Commerce

pension increased ...

1292

and Labor.....

830 Seamen, American,

Scott, Albert, deficiency appropriation for ..........
Scott, Albert M., pension increased .
Scott, Alexander, pension increased .

583 , 1068 1539 1376

appropriation for testimonials for rescuing

shipwrecked ... for relief and protection of..

79, 810 87,819

deficiency appropriation for relief, etc

32,

587, 590, 1077

Seamen, Merchant,

Scott, Charles A. , pension increased .
Scott, Edward B., pension increased .
Scott, F. A. R. ,

1502 1259

duties, etc. , of Secretary of Treasury over,

to be transferred to Secretary of

Commerce and Labor .

829

Seamonds, Sanders R. ,

pension increased ..

1509

payment to Scott, Frances E. (widow ),
pension increased .... Scott, Francis,
pension increased..........

490 Searchlights for Harbor Defense,

appropriation for purchase, etc ........ 305 , 1024

1344 Sears, David,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

1451

ministrator of......

Scott, James,

Sears, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .... 220, 230, 230, 231 , 232

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of..

226

Scott, James R. Homer, pension ..
Scott, Lucinda C. (widow) , pension increased ..
Scott, Luther, pension increased ..
Scott, Mary (widow), pension increased.
Scott, Mary A. E. (widow) , pension increased ..
Scott, Richard G., payment to

1380 1265 1637 1440 1514 490

Sears, Mary Ann ( widow),

pension increased ..

1679

Seattle, Wash.,

appropriation for salaries, assay office .. 147, 881

for wages and contingent expenses ... 147 , 882

for public building ..

422

deficiency appropriation for assay office.. 10,

28, 559, 1041

immediate transportation privileges ex-

tended to

636

limit of cost increased, public building... 315

Scott, Robert M.,

Seavey, Stephen A. ,

pension increased ..

1250 pension

1432

INDEX .

2215

Sebor, Jacob,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of...

223, 226, 227

Second Assistant Postmaster- General,

appropriation for, clerks, etc.

165, 900

for postal service, office of . Second-Class Mailing Privileges,

114, 1172

appropriation for counsel in suits affecting . 1174

Second-Hand Dealers, D. C.,

license tax on

628

Second Light-House District, appropriation for depot, Castle Island .... 430

depot authorized on Government land,

Boston Harbor, Mass ...

853

repeal of appropriation for depot, Castle

Island, Mass ..

853

Secret-Service Division, Treasury Department,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc ...... 140, 874

Secretaries of Embassies and Legations, appropriation for salaries ..

77,808

Secretary of Agriculture,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 286, 1147

for extending foreign markets for dairy

products, etc., sales ..

290, 1151

for printing annual report..

480, 1146

duties of, as to renovated butter

196

jurisdiction over Arlington experimental

farm ...

293

powers to suppress diseases of animals

transferred from Secretary of the

Treasury to

791

to contract for construction of new build-

ing for Department .

1139

to detail expert from Animal Industry

Bureau for advisory board , hygienic

laboratory

713

to make regulations, etc. , to prevent spread

of animal contagious diseases ..

792

to prescribe rules, etc. , inspection of dairy

products for export .

290

to report on advisability of uniting crop

statistics with Weather Bureau ... 300

Secretary of Commerce and Labor,

appointment of; salary and term ..

825

deficiency appropriation for, Assistant, etc. 1081

Secretary of State,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks , etc. 132, 866

made member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission ...

486

to designate officer to prepare instructions

to, and edit reports from, consuls for Department of Commerce and Labor 830

Secretary of the Interior,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc. 156 , 891

for Supreme Court Reports, etc. , addi-

tional distribution by

631

for clerk to sign for, approval of Indian

tribal deeds .

891

directed to make additional distribution of

Supreme Court Reports .

630

distribute Revised Statutes and Supple-

ment to Senators and Representa-

tives .

631

duties as to irrigation reclamation fund, etc 388

general authority allotting, etc., Cherokee

lands .

725

to assemble Indian exhibit for Saint Louis

Exposition ...

445

to approve disposition of lands on Chip-

pewa reservations, Minn ..

401

to cause resurvey of certain townships in

Wyoming ..

767

to disburse appropriations for new build-

ing for House of Representatives ... 1114

Secretary ofthe Interior- Continued.

Page.

to prescribe regulations for right of way, San Francisco Mountains Forest

Reserve, Ariz ..

907

Wind Cave National Park, S. Dak.

765

Secretary of the Navy,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 153 , 887

authorized to loan flags, etc. , Grand Army

encampment

749

may convey Widows Island to Maine ..

952

may make contracts to complete works

authorized

676

may purchase reserve guns by contract... 666

to appoint midshipman if Congressional

nomination not made .

1197

to notify Senators, etc. , of midshipmen vacancies after March 5 each year.. 1197

to report on advisability of removal, etc. , naval station, Port Royal, S. C .......... 675

to return to Harvard University certain

presents to cruiser " Harvard "

770

Secretary of the Senate,

appropriation for, clerks, etc ......

121 , 854

Secretary of the Treasury,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks , etc. 133 , 867

authority, etc. , over merchant vessels, etc. ,

to be transferred to Secretary of

Commerce and Labor...

829

authorized to issue bonds for Isthmian

canal expenses

484

to build keeper's dwelling, Kewaunee

light-house, Wis ...

74

to sell lands acquired by devise .

1112

launch for customs service, Astoria, Oreg. ,

authorized

70

powerto suppress diseases ofanimals trans-

ferred to Secretary of Agriculture .. 791

to adjust accounts of Morgan's Louisiana,

etc., Steamship Company ......

405

to advance moneys for District of Columbia

expenses; reimbursement .....

616

to approve location of right of way, Gaspa-

rilla Island Reservation

384

to enforce rules, interstate trade in viruses,

etc

729

to give consent to underground railway,

New York, adjoining Government

property

1232

to issue American register to foreign vessel

" Hawaii "

35

to issue duplicate bonds to estate of Alex-

ander W. Goodwin ...

1600

to make rules for Chinese exclusion .

176

regulations for admission of alien labor-
ers to expositions .. to report on postal condition Hawaii, etc. to transfer employees to the Department
of Commerce and Labor before July 1, 1903 ..

177 326
1082

Secretary of War,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 149, 883

discretion of, as to fortifications works,

etc.; contracts ...

1025

made member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission

486

to approve location of right of way, Gas-

parilla Island, Fla . , Reservation

384

Lock No. 3, Upper White River, Ark .. 42

Lock No. 4, Black Warrior River ..

189

to approve plans, etc. , of bridge across

Alabama River, Ala

772

Allegheny River, Pittsburg, Pa ..

837

Arkansas River, Fort Gibson, Ind. T.

37

in Arkansas ..

39

Moors Rock, Ark .

926

2216

INDEX .

Secretary of War- Continued .

Page.

to approve plans, etc. , of bridge across

Ashley River, S. C ...

494

Bogue Chitto, La ..

839

Calumet River, Hammond, Ind. , and Cummings, Ill ...
Chattahoochee River, Columbus, Ga .... Choctawhatchee River, Martin Ferry,
Ala ....
Clinch River, Dossett, Tenn .. Columbia River, Vancouver, Wash.. Conecuh River, McGowans Ferry, Ala .. Connecticut River, Hartford, Conn .. Cumberland River, Nashville, Tenn .. Current River, Ark ... East Saint Andrews Bay, Fla . Emory River, Harriman, Tenn Manatee River, Fla ..

660 192
1225 794 279 852 836 390 4 72 499 190

Mississippi River, between Champlin

and Anoka, Minn ..

408

Little Falls, Minn

505

in Minnesota .

391

Missouri River, Chamberlain , S. Dak.

834

Council Bluffs, Iowa, to Omaha, Nebr . 205

Kansas and Missouri .

755

Kansas City, Mo ..

57, 919

Oacoma, S. Dak.

763

Parkville, Mo

103

Pierre, S. Dak .

658

Plattsmouth, Nebr .

496

South Omaha, Nebr

91

Saint Joseph, Mo ...

36

Monongahela River, Pa .

59, 840

Morgantown, W. Va ..

71

Webster, Pa..

850

between West Elizabeth and Dravos-

burg, Pa .

498

Neuse River, Kinston, N. C

180

Ohio River, Allegheny, Pa .

178

Ouachita River, Ark ..

89

Pearl River, Miss ..

188

Smiths Ferry, Miss

925

Rainy River, Minn

801

Red River, Shreveport, La

182

Saint Francis River, Ark .

835

Saint Francis, Ark .

1031

Savannah River

280

Sand Bar Ferry, Ga

760

Savannah, Ga ..

104

Tennessee River, Tenn

493

Lewis Bluff to Guntersville, Ala .

922

Marion County, Tenn .....

201

Waccamaw River, Conway, S. C..

387

White River, Ark Newport, Ark ....

41 , 186 397

to approve plans, etc. , of dams, etc. , Mis-

souri and Meramec rivers

56

Saint Croix River, Wis ..

802

Saint Lawrence River, N. Y.

392

locks and dam, Bayou Vermilion , La... 766

Mermentau River, La...

767

to cause annual inspection of organized

militia ..

777

to contract for improvement and care of

Confederate Mound, Oak Woods

Cemetery, Chicago , Ill .....

804

to convey cemetery lot to Quincy, Ill

95

to donate cannon for statue of Gen. Alex.

Macomb

750

for statue of General Devens

751

to erect monument on site of Fort Phil

Kearny massacre

175

monuments at Gettysburg to mark position , etc. , of Regular Army troops .. 838

to have edition of Rebellion Records

printed for Fifty-seventh Congress . 1145

Secretary of War-Continued.

Page.

to issue magazine arms, etc. , for organized

militia .....

777

to loan flags, etc. , Grand Army encamp-

ment

749

tents to Knights of Pythias, San Fran-

cisco , Cal

187

tents, etc. , to Texas Reunion Associa-

tion

737

hospital tents, etc. , for Grand Army

encampment .

749

to locate right of way through Fort Sill

Military Reservation, Okla...

821

locks 2 and 3, Big Sandy River, W. Va.. 1030

Vancouver Military Reservation, Wash . 1028

to permit use of Governors Island by city

of Boston, Mass

743

to prepare plans for buildings, West Point

Military Academy .

419

Secretary to the President, appropriation for

132, 866

Securities, United States,

appropriation for distinctive paper, ex-

penses, etc

448, 1109

for witness, destruction of.. for sealing and separating for canceling, etc., expenses .

448, 1109 448 , 1110 448, 1110

for custody of dies, rolls, and plates . 448 , 1110

deficiency appropriation for distinctive

paper . for sealing and separating

6, 1037 1037

Securities, Collateral,

taxes on, remitted .

407

Seduction, D. C., of pupil by teacher, age limit restricted .. 535

Seeds, etc., Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for expenses of distributing,

etc

293, 1155

Congressional distribution .

294, 1155

notification of readiness .

294, 1155

mailing franks .... distribution of, remaining

294, 1156 294, 1156

report of purchases ; diversion forbid-

den...

294, 1156

selection as to locality; Southern de-

livery....

294, 1156

for collecting from foreign countries;

distribution

294, 1156

for erecting warehouse

295

franks for Congressional distribution to be furnished Agricultural Department . 741

Seely, Augusta W. Lwidow) ,

pension increased .

1629

Seisel, S.,

payment to

487

Seithen, Joseph,

pension increased .

1374

Seitz, John A. M.,

pension increased .

1623

Sellers, Alfred J,,

pension increased .

1596

Sells, Orange,

pension increased ....

1677

Selma, Ala.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

428, 1089

Semiahmoo, Wash.,

appropriation for light-house and fog-

signal ....

329

Seminole Indian Lands, Fla.,

sale of old agency grounds

1024

Seminole Indian Wars.

pensions to survivors, etc. , of Florida and

Georgia .

399

pensions to survivors, etc. , of Florida .

399

INDEX .

2217

26

Seminole Indians,

Page.

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 253, 989

Seminole Nation,

tribal government to end March 3, 1906 .. 1008 conveyances to allottees ; homesteads .... 1008

Senate,

appropriation for compensation of Sena-

tors ..

121 , 854

for mileage.

121 , 854

for secretary to Vice- President, etc .. 121, 854

for Chaplain...

121 , 854

for Secretary, clerks, etc

121, 854

for superintendent document room , as-

sistants, etc

121 , 855

forclerksand messengers to committees 121,855

forclerksto committees at $2,100 a year. 122, 855

revising Senate Manual

856

for clerksto committees at $1,800 a year. 122 , 856

for Sergeant-at-Arms and Doorkeeper,

assistants, etc.

122, 856

for messengers, laborers, pages, etc ... 122 , 856

for Postmaster, assistant, etc ....

123 , 856

for superintendent folding room, as-

sistant, etc

123, 856

for chief engineer, assistants, etc ..... 123, 856

for clerks to Senators

123, 856

for contingent expenses, stationery and

newspapers

123, 856

for postage stamps .

123, 857

for horses and mail wagons .

123, 857

for folding materials ; folding .

123, 857

for fuel, oil, etc ...

123, 857

for furniture, repairs, etc..

123,857

for packing boxes

123 , 857

for miscellaneous items

123, 857

Maltby Building ..

123, 857

for inquiries and investigations

123, 857

for reporting debates ..

124, 857

for repairs, Maltby Building .

124, 857

for rent, document warehouse 124, 479, 857

for printing and binding .

479, 1145

for record of private claims, Fifty-sixth

and Fifty-seventh Congresses ..

857

for steel shelving, library, etc. , use of

balance ....

451

for steel cases for files .. for Thomas G. Garrett for William B. Turner

1113 478 479

for William M. Malloy

479

for bust of President McKinley .

1144

deficiency appropriation for clerks to Sena-

tors ..

25, 1067

for fuel, oil, etc .. for furniture

26, 285, 1067 26

for inquiries and investigations ... 26, 118 , 285

for miscellaneous items ..... 26, 118, 759, 1067

for rent, storage of documents .

26

for widow of James H. Kyle

26

for widow of William J. Sewell ..

26

for expenses, funeral of President Mc-

Kinley

26

for printing and binding

27, 1069

for horses and mail wagons .

285

for pages... for official reporters .. for Paul Cockerille .. for R. G. Procter for J. H. Jones ...
for indexing Executive Journals . for A. H. Howe . for Dennis M. Kerr .

580, 1067 580, 1067
580
580 580, 1067
580 580 580, 1067

for John H. Walker . for index to private claims

580, 1067 580

for extra month's pay to employees . 583, 1066

for clerk of Appropriations Committee . 1066

for widow of James McMillan ...

1067

Senate- Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for stationery and newspapers
for C. A. Norcross
for Harry C. Robertson . for W. M. Malloy for Parker Williams for joint committee, dedication Louisi-
ana Purchase Exposition ...

1067 1067 1067 1067 1067
1068

committee appointed to confer with one

from the House on Army appropria-

tion bill...

1770

contingent expenses appropriations, re-

striction on use of

26

employees to be paid December, 1901 , salaries December 18
December, 1902, salaries December 18 .. executive officers in Philippines to be con-
firmed by

734 1229
692

five members to serve on joint Library

Committee ..

735

joint committee with House of Representa-

tives authorized to attend dedication

of Saint Louis Fair.....

1774

joint meeting with House of Representatives for memorial address on late

President McKinley by Hon. John

Hay

1763

proclamation calling special session of, for March 5, 1903 .
to confirm Philippine judges Senate Manual,

2036 695

appropriation for clerk to Committee on

Rules for preparing ...

856

Senators,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age

121, 854

for clerks to ...

123, 856

deficiency appropriation for clerks to ... 25, 1067 appointment of midshipmen on recom-

mendation of..

686

number of copies of Congressional Record

to, increased

786

to receive one copy of Revised Statutes

and of Supplements...

631

Seneca Indians,

interest to be paid on fund of..

262

payment per capita from credits and

trust funds.

262

acts of council ratified

262

Seneca Indians of New York,

appropriation for interest.. Seoul, Korea,
appropriation for consul-general at... for interpreter ...

253, 989
77,808 78, 809

Sequoia National Park,

appropriation for protecting, etc ...... 456, 1119

deficiency appropriation for supplies .

1060

Sergeant-at- Arms and Doorkeeper, Senate,

appropriation for, assistants, messengers,

etc

122, 856

Sergeant-at- Arms, House of Representatives,

appropriation for, deputy, etc

126,859

Serio, Giovanni and Vincenzo,

deficiency appropriation for heirs of, killed

at Erwin, Miss

1032

Serums,

regulation of sale in District of Columbia,

and interstate traffic in ....

728

Servants, Domestic,

alien, not excluded admission

1214

Servia,

extradition treaty with ....

... 1890

Servia and Greece, Roumania,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation .

77,808

2218

INDEX .

Service by Publication, modification of bankrupt act as to

Page. 798

Set-offs, D. C.,

between several defendants and plaintiff,

allowed ...

544

Seventh Light-House District,

appropriation for steam tender; contract . 430

for tender for engineer

1092

Seward Square, D. C., Seward Place hereafter to be known as ... 1224

Sewell, Hon. William J. , late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for widow .

26

Sewell, Maj. Gen. William J.,

condemned cannon donated for statue of . 745

Sewers, D. C.,

appropriation for cleaning and repairing 599, 964

for main and pipe

599,964

for suburban

599, 964

for rights of way, flushing tanks, etc. for eastern boundary .. for east-side intercepting
for pumping station.. for low-area trunk
for west Georgetown trunk .

599, 964 599, 964
599 599, 964
599 599, 964

for B street and New Jersey avenue .. 599, 964

for outfall and siphon....

965

application of balances .

600, 965

for fencing James Creek Canal ; leases

authorized

600

Seydel, John M.,

pension increased .

1354

Seymore, Fredereka ( widow) ,

pension .

1463

Seymour, James M. ,

payment to..

237

Shafer, Frederick,

pension increased .

1293

Shaffer, Sophie S. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1689

Shaffer, William H.,

pension increased

1408

Shandrew, Ella F. (widow) , pension ..
Shaner, Solomon S. , pension increased .

1748 1636

Shanghai, China, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire ....
for prison expenses Shanks, Flavius,
pension increased

81 , 813 86, 818 87,819
1655

Shapley, Reuben,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Shattuck, Alice De K. (widow) ,

pension increased ....

1307

Shattuck, Cynthia J. (widow) ,

pension increased

1478

Shaw, Elizabeth A. (widow ),

pension increased .

1306

Shaw, George W.,

pension increased ..

1499

Shaw, William II.,

pension increased .

1661

Shawnee Indians, Eastern,

interest to be paid on fund of......

262

"Shawnee," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation , referred to

Court of Claims

244

Sheafe, Charles A. ,

pension ...

1284

Sheafe, Jacob,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

224, 232

Sheafe, James,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of..

225

Sheafe, Thomas,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Sheafe, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Shearer, Benjamin F.,

pension increased

1471

Shebit Indians, Utah,

appropriation for support, etc. , of; lease for

smelter

256,992

Sheboygan, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 345

Sheepshead Bay, N. Y., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Sheets, Christopher Columbus,

pension ...

1371

Sheffield, England, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

82,814 86,818

Sheldon, Charles F.,

pension increased .

1691

Sheldon, Downing, and Company, claim referred to Court of Claims; payment 764

Sheldon, Hiram A. ,

pension ..

1558

Sheldon, William,

pension increased ..

1421

Sheppard, Hon. J. L. , late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow ....... 1067

Sherbrooke, Canada,

appropriation for consul at .

84, 816

Sheridan, Thomas,

pension increased .

1533

Sherman, Gen. W. T. ,

appropriation for completing statue, etc... 460

deficiency appropriation for pedestal, etc. ,

statue to

758

Sherman, Tex.,

construction of public building author-

ized at .

318

appropriation for .

428, 1089

limit of cost increased, public building........ 1206

terms of court .

69

Sherry, Thomas,

pension increased .

1620

Shick, Pierson L.,

pension increased .

1477

Shields for Barbette Carriages, Army,

appropriation for.

1025

Shilling, Emma F. (widow),

pension increased .

1462

Shiloh National Military Park,

appropriation for establishing ......... 466, 1131

Shinn, Annie (widow ),

pension ..

1415

Ship Canal (see also Isthmian Canal )

81

treaty with Great Britain to facilitate con-

struction of

1903

Ship, etc., Letters, appropriation for
Shipman, Zebulon A., pension ..

117, 1174 1439

Shipp Monumental Committee,

may erect monument on grounds of mint,

Charlotte, N. C .............

739

Shipping(see also Commerce and Navigation ) ,

duties, etc., of Secretary of Treasury over,

to be transferred to Secretary of

Commerce and Labor ..

829

head-money tax a lien on vessels

1213

lists of alien passengers required ; contents,

etc

1216

expense of keeping and returning illegally

imported aliens to be borne by own-

ers, etc .....

1218

INDEX .

2219

Shipping- Continued.

Page .

trade statistics to be furnished, commerce

with noncontiguous territory of

United States

172

Shipping Commissioners,

transferred to jurisdiction of Department

of Commerce and Labor

826

Shipping Industries,

duty of Department of Commerce and La-

bor as to .

826

Shipwrecked American Seamen,

appropriation for life-saving testimonials . 79, 810

for relief and protection of...

87,819

deficiency appropriation for relief, etc ..

32,

587, 590, 1075

Shirar, Charles, pension increased ..

1756

Shoal Harbor, N. J., appropriation for improvement of........................ 350

Shoenecker, Albertine (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1349

Shooting Galleries, D. C. , license tax on owners, etc.; regulations... 626

Shooting Ranges, etc. , Army, appropriation for . deficiency appropriation for for repairs, etc ...
Shope, A. G., payment to

517,939 1045 13
489

Shope, H. N.,

payment to

488

Shoshone Agency, Wyo.,

appropriation for Indian agent at.

246, 983

Shoshone and Arapahoe Indians, Wyo.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with ... 253

Shoshone Indian Reservation, Wyo.,

appropriation for Indian school...... 272, 1005

Shoshone Indians,

proclamation opening to entry of lands in

Idaho ceded by Bannocks and ..... 1997 Shoshone Indians, Nev.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 253, 989

for support, etc. , of Shoshone Indians, Wyo.,,

256,993

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 256, 993

Shovar, Frederick,

pension increased .

1633

Showalter, Peter,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 216 Shower, Adam,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 210

Shreveport Bridge and Terminal Company, may bridge Red River, Shreveport, La... 181

Shreveport, La.,

bridge authorized across Red River at.... 181

Shreeves, Abraham,

pension increased .

1564

Shrewsbury River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 350 preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380 Shropshire, Richard H. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 210

Shurtleff, Julia B. (widow) , pension increased ..
Siam, appropriation for minister resident and
consul-general to . for minister to ..

1484
76 807

for secretary of legation and consul-gen-

eral

808

for interpreter.

78, 809

for expenses of prisoners

819

Sichel, Kathinka (widow) ,

pension ...

1753

Sick and Wounded,

principles of Geneva convention as to,

adapted to maritime warfare

1827

Sickels, Henry, pension increased ....

Page. 1674

Sides, Elijah, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 208
"Sidney," Sloop,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of.

219

Sieg, Harry H. (son ),

pension .

1285

Siegfried, Ida R. (widow),

pension increased ..

1259

Sierra Leone, Africa, appropriation for consul at

85, 817

Sigel, Elise (widow) ,

pension ..

1653

Sigfried, Elizabeth P. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1397

Signal Corps, Ariny,

appropriation for pay, enlisted men .... 509, 930

forpay of officers; longevity..

510, 932

additional sergeants, Philippine and Alaska

service ...

509

second - class privates to be designated

privates..

509

officers added; filling vacancies .

932

chief of telegraph and cipher bureau,

Executive office, appointment, pay,

etc

932

certain survivors of Lady Franklin Bay Ex-

pedition to be enlisted in, and re-

tired ...

1455

Signal Office, War Department,
appropriation for clerks, etc for rent ..

150, 884 885

Signal Service ( see also Signal Corps, Army ) ,

appropriation for expenses

507, 929

for telegraph and electrical apparatus,

etc

508,929

for cable to Alaska .

508, 929

Siletz Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of

258, 994

Silk Culture,

appropriation for investigations, etc ...... 303 Silver and Gold,

appropriation for diplomatic cooperation

for fixed relationship of, in monetary

systems .

1138

Silver Certificates, Philippine,

issue authorized, on deposit of standard

silver coins ....

954

Silver Coin,

appropriation for transporting ........ 447 , 1109

deficiency appropriation for transporting . 1035

limitation on recoinage of, removed ...

1109

Silver Coins, Philippines,

coinage of subsidiary, authorized

710

legal-tender limit .

710

Simes, Mark,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ........

233

Simmons, A. H.,

appropriation for

269

Simmons, Elizabeth W. (widow), pension
Simmons, Ranson, pension increased .

1313 ... 1500

Simmons, William J.,

pension increased .

1361

Simms, Joseph M.,

promotion in Revenue-Cutter Service au-

thorized

1490

Simpson, John,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

1047

Simpson, Elias,

pension increased .

1736

2220

INDEX .

Sims, Daniel, pension increased .

Page. 1373

Sims, Florian V. (widow), pension increased ....
Sims, James D. , pension increased ..

1473 1551

Sims, Joseph, payment of French spoliation claim administrator of .
Singapore, Straits Settlements, appropriation for consul-general at .. for clerk hire..

to 218
81 , 813 86, 818

Singleton, W. H. ,

payment to .

490

Singley, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .

1315

Sinking Fund Office, D. C., appropriation for clerks

593, 958

Sioux Falls, S. Dak.,

terms of court .

197

Sioux Indian Reservations,

appropriation for allotting lands in sev-

eralty

999

homestead settlers on ceded , may commute

entries ...

203

Sioux Indians, Crow Creek Reservation,

appropriation for civilization, etc. , from

principal of fund ....

267

Sioux Indians, Different Tribes,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 254, 990

for agency employees

254, 990

for subsistence ..

254, 990

transportation; employment of In-

dians

254, 990

issuing rations.

254, 990

use of unexpended balance . for support, etc. , of schools ..

254, 990 254,990

deficiency appropriation for support .. 587, 1074

for depredations ..

1074

Sioux Indians, Medawakanton Band, deficiency appropriation for support ..... 31, 589
Sioux Indians of Devils Lake, N. Dak.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ..... 256 , 993

Sioux Indians, Yankton Tribe,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 254, 990

Sirup, Table,

appropriation for investigating, etc. , to ob-

tain first-class

297, 1159

Sirwell, Lucinda A. (daughter) ,

pension ...

1419

Sisseton Agency, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246 , 983

Sitesfor Fortifications, appropriation for purchase

305 , 1024

for purchase of, Cushings Island, Me . 305, 1024 Sites for Public Buildings,

requirements before purchase, etc ..... 325 , 1213

space required for protection from fire . 327 , 1213

rent of buildings on purchased sites ; pro-

ceeds

1213

condemnation proceedings for, District of Columbia
Sitka, Alaska, appropriation for buildings and wharf.......... for officers' quarters, Marine Corps
Siuslaw River, Oreg.,

1213
422 689

appropriation for improvement of ; resur-

vey, etc ....

370

Sivas, Turkey, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Six Nation Indians of New York,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 253 , 990

Skagway, Alaska,

appropriation for site for military post ... 1130

Skating Rinks, etc. , D. C. ,

license tax on lessees, etc ..

626

Skiddaway Narrows, Ga. ,

Page .

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Skilled Labor,

conditions allowing importation of alien .. 1214

Skinner, George,

pension increased .

1741

Skinner, Samuel W.,

pension increased.

1290

Slack, John W. ,

pension increased ...

1674

Slaker, John,

deficiency appropriation for services

26

Slater, J. H.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 577

Slaughter, Linda W. (widow),

pension increased ..

1459

Slave Labor, Philippines,

use by corporations, etc. , prohibited ................ 709

Slave Trade, African,

appropriation for international bureau for

repression of .......

80, 811

Slawson, Eben,

pension increased..

1700

Sloan, Hiram L.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Slocum, Delia E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1421

Slocum, Jonathan H., pension increased .
Slot-Machine Exhibitions, D. C., license tax on proprietors
Slusser, Mary J. (widow), pension .
Small, Baley W., pension increased .

1550 626 1648 1499

Small, George H., payment of Court of Claims judgment to .... 217

Smalley, Alice F. (widow),

pension .

1684

Smallman, David,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .......

215

Smallpox,

appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450, 1113

deficiency appropriation for preventing,

among Indians

22

Smallwood, J. T. ,

payment to .

490

Smith, Albert M. ,

pension ...

1683

Smith and Company, Robert,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner .. 222, 225

Smith, Andrew C.,

pension increased.......

1670

Smith, Charles F.,

pension increased ..

1427

Smith, Clara E.,

pension increased..

1757

Smith, David,

advanced to next grade, retired list, Navy . 796

Smith, Emilie J.,

payment to

1453

Smith, Eunice A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1387

Smith, Francis,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Smith, Francis J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of.....

216

Smith, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Smith, George H.,

pension increased ...

1346

INDEX .

2221

Smith, George M., pension increased .

Page. Smith, William D. , 1732 pension increased ..

Page. 1530

Smith, Henry I., pension increased .
Smith, Ira P., pension .

Smith, William J.,

1456 released from liability on bond of R. M.

Thompson

1603

1555 real estate ceded back ..

1603

Smith, Jacob, pension increased ..

Smiths Ferry, Miss., 1483 bridge authorized across Pearl River at... 924

Smith, James, pension increased .

Smithson, William W.,

1255 pension increased....

1650

Smith, James C. G.,

pension increased ..

1395

Smith, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of.....

208, 221

Smith, John,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

221

Smith, John,

pension increased ..

1436

Smithsonian Institution,

appropriation for international exchanges . 439, 1101

for American ethnology

439, 1101

for astrophysical observatory .

439, 1101

for National Museum

439, 1101

for Zoological Park .

440, 1102

for printing and binding

480, 1146

Sinokeless Powder Factory, Navy,

appropriation for enlarging, Indian Head . 1180

Smith, John,

Smoot, John W.,

pension increased ..........

1638 pension

1433

Smith, John, jr., payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of.
Smith, John A. , pension increased ..
Smith, John H. , pension increased .

226 1615 1475

Smoot, Otillia M. (widow),

pension increased ..

1334

Smyrna River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of ....... 350

Smyrna, Turkey, appropriation for consul at

82, 814

for clerk hire ..

86, 818

Smith, John H., pension increased ..

Smyth, C. B., 1744 claim referred to Court of Claims ; payment . 764

Smith, John W., payment to

Smyth, Marie J. (widow),

487 pension increased ..

1304

Smith, Josiah, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of .
Smith, L. B.,

Snake River, Oreg. and Wash. ,
appropriation for improvement of.. 232 Snee, Nathan W.,
pension increased .

370 1342

payment to Smith, Leroy S.,
pension increased ..
Smith, Lucy G. (widow) , pension increased .
Smith, Lucy W. (widow), pension increased ..
Smith, Maria M. C. (widow), pension

490 Snider, C. A. ,

payment to .

490

1229 Snodgrass, John,

pension increased ..

1634

1546 Snohomish River, Wash.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

1304 Snook, Sarah J. (widow),

pension

1658

1601 Snow and Ice, D. C.,

Smith, Matilda (widow), pension increased ..

appropriation for removing, from cross-

1720

walks and gutters ....

2, 600, 965

Smith, Moses, pension increased ..
Smith, Nicholas, pension increased .

Snuff,

1265 deficiency appropriation for rebate of inter-

nal-revenue tax on........

8, 1040

1578 reduction of internal-revenue tax on

96

Smith, Richard C.,

packages authorized

97

pension increased .

1310 Snuffer, Cyrus,

Smith, Rinaldo P. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

claim for sale, etc. , of certain real estate,

administrator of ......

217

referred to Court of Claims ......

243 Snyder, Adrian M. ,

Smith, Samuel S.,

1 pension increased ..

294

pension increased .

1560 Snyder, Franklin,

Smith, Sarah E. (widow ),

| pension increased .

1456

pension .

1626 Snyder, Margaret (mother) ,

Smith, Sarah J.,

pension ...

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

Snyder, William H.,

administrator of ..

208 pension increased .

1651 1514

Smith, Sarah M. (widow),

pension

1323

Smith, Thomas L. ,

pension increased .

1672

Smith, Thomas P.

pension increased ..

1363

Smith, W. A. ,

deficiency appropriation for pay for extra

services ..

583, 1066

Society ofthe Army of Santiago de Cuba, incorporated; purposes, etc.
Sofia, appropriation for agent at .
Soils Bureau, Department of Agriculture, appropriation for salaries. for general expenses
Soldiers,

661
76
297, 1159 297, 1159

Smith, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

F

ministrator of

229, 231

appropriation for burial of indigent .. 464, 1128

deficiency appropriation for burial of indi-

gent .

29

2222

INDEX .

Soldiers and Sailors' Home, etc. , D. C. ,

Page. South Milwaukee, Wis. ,

Page.

appropriation for

613,979 resurvey of harbor to be made..

383

Soldiers' Home, National (see also National

South Omaha, Nebr.,

Home for Volunteer Soldiers ) ,

bridge authorized across Missouri River at . 91

appropriation for expenses

468, 1132 South Omaha Railroad and Bridge Company,

Solicitor for Department of State, appropriation for for assistant

may bridge Missouri River, South Omaha,

167,903

Nebr

91

132, 866 South Pass, Mississippi River,

Solicitor- General, appropriation for
Solicitor of Internal Revenue, appropriation for
Solicitor of the Treasury,

appropriation for maintaining channel;

167,903

purchase of property.

340

examinations, etc. , to continue .

340

167,903 South Platte Canal and Reservoir Company,

sale of lands to, for Denver water supply. 716

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc. 168, 904 South Platte Forest Reserve,

for books and stationery

168, 904 sale of tracts in, for Denver, Colo. , water

Solingen, Germany,

supply.

716

appropriation for consul at

84, 816 South River, N. J.,

for clerk hire ..

86, 818 appropriation for improvement of.................. 350

Solomon, W. G.,

Southampton, England,

payment to .

487 appropriation for consul at

82,814

Somerville, James A. ,

for clerk hire ..

86, 818

military record corrected ...

1310 Southampton Shoal, San Francisco Bay, Cal. ,

Sons of American Revolution, Pennsylvania

light-house and fog bell established...

822

Society of,

appropriation for

1093

certain Revolutionary trophies loaned to,

Southern Cotton Oil Company,

Pittsburg, Pa ....

737 right of United States to certain lands in

"Sophia," Schooner,

Alabama released to

787

payment of French spoliation claim on account of....
Sorghum ,

Southerland, John J.,

219 pension ...

1500

Southern Missouri and Arkansas Railroad

appropriation for investigating production

Company,

of sugar from ...

295, 1156 may bridge Current River, Ark...............

4

South Atlantic Quarantine Station,

Southern Ute Agency, Colo.,

appropriation for protection against water

appropriation for Indian agent at ..

246

encroachment ...

423 Southern Ute Indian Reservation, Colo.,

South Bend, Ind.,

right of way for irrigation permitted .

266

examination of public building, directed ;

irrigation contract authorized ........

266

report

326 Southport, Conn.,

South Carolina,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

deficiency appropriation for balance found

Southwest Louisiana Rice Growers' Association,

due ..

1078

settlement of mutual claims, war of 1812 . 235

may construct locks, etc. , in Bayou Ver-

milion, La..

766

South Carolina Interstate and West Indian Ex-

Southwest Pass, Mississippi River,

position (see Charleston Exposition ) . South Carolina and West Indian Exposition

appropriation for improvement of ; con-

tracts

339,1127

Company, appropriation for reimbursing for expenses
of Government exhibit.
South Dakota,

Sowder, B. H., T payment to administrator of.......
735 Spain, appropriation for minister to

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 899

for secretary of legation ... for clerk hire ..

1604
76, 807 77,808 78,809

for incidental expenses, Indian service

property acquired from, in Philippines,

in

258, 994

deficiency appropriation for surveyor-

placed under control of government

there .

695

general...

1056 Spain, War with,

jurisdiction to United States for crimes

appropriation for arrears of pay, etc. , Army 473

committed on Indian reservations .. 793 Spalding, John A.,

proclamation restoring to public domain

pension increased..

1702

lands of unused Cheyenne River

Spangler, Adel Virginia,

Agency

2035 payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 217

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

Spanish Battle Ships,

gation

388 masts from "Don Juan d'Austria" and

title to camp, etc. , ground made absolute . 546 South Dakota Judicial District,

"Almirante Oquendo " donated to

Alabama ...

304

terms of court, Sioux Falls Aberdeen Pierre Deadwood
in effect July 1 , 1902 .. South Haven, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor. preliminary examination of harbor to be
made
South Manitou Island, Lake Michigan, appropriation for telegraph, etc. , to Glenhaven storm-warning stations

197 Spanish Silver Coins,

197 receivable temporarily in the Philippines. 954

197 Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

197 appropriation for defense of suits ...... 473 , 1139

198

for general expenses

474

deficiency appropriation for expenses .

24

343

for defense of claims before ..

25

for salaries, etc ...

1069

379

for paying awards

1069

rules of procedure ...

550

vested with powers of Federal courts

550

282

to take testimony in foreign countries.. 550

INDEX .

2223 .

Spanish Treaty Claims Commission- Cont'd. Page. service of process, etc. , by marshals ..... 550

to appoint officer to serve process in for-

eign countries

550

compulsory attendance, etc., of witnesses. 550

Spanish War Claims,

appropriation for paying ....

486

Spartanburg, S. C.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1089

Spaulding, Belle L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1704

Spaulding, George,

payment to...

488

Speaker of the House of Representatives,

appropriation for private secretary, etc. 124, 858

Spearfish, S. Dak.,

appropriation for fish hatchery

1107

Spears, N. B.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses

581

Special Agents, Corporation Bureau,

deficiency appropriation for pay and ex-

penses

1081

Special and Select Committees, House of Repre-

sentatives, appropriation for expenses

128, 862

deficiency appropriation for expenses

27,

285, 774, 1068

Special Assessment Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries .
Special Delivery, Postal Service,
appropriation for messengers, etc .. deficiency appropriation for maximum allowance to messengers
creased

593, 959
112, 1170 32
in1175

Special Delivery Messengers, deemed carriers of mail ; protection , etc .. 1176

Special Employees, House of Representatives,

appropriation for; successors

127, 860

Special Facilities, Postal Service,

appropriation for, from Washington to

Atlanta and New Orleans

116, 1173

Kansas City to Newton, Kans

116, 1173

Special Reports of the Census Office,

collection of statistics for; subjects ....

52

Special Taxes, Internal Revenue,

imposed by war-revenue act, repealed .... 96

on manufacturers of oleomargarine ; class

extended

194

on dealers in only uncolored oleomarga-

rine; reduced

194

on manufacturers of process or renovated

butter

195

on dealers in adulterated butter

195

Spectacle Island, Mass. ,

range lights established on

93

Spectacle Reef, Lake Huron, Mich. , appropriation for light-house ; foundation . 1093

Spencer, James M. ,

pension increased ..

1591

Spencer, Lorillard, land in Newport, R. I. , quitclaimed to ... 1419

Sperry, Mary Ann E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1364

Spirits, Distilled (see Distilled Spirits ) . Split Rock River, Minn.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Spokane Indian Reservation, Wash. , appropriation for allotments to Indians of. 997

mineral lands only, subject to entry ; ex-

ception

266

mining entries to take effect December 31,

1902

742

unallotted lands to be opened to mining

entries ..

744



Spokane Indian Reservation, Wash. - Cont'd. Page. estimate for survey of, to be submitted ... 575

Spokane Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 254, 990

for Chiefs Louis and Enoch ....

254

Spokane, Wash. ,

purchase of public building site, author-

ized

320

appropriation for

429

construction authorized of public build-

ing at...

1207

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Spottswood, Robert J.,

payment to

1393

Sprague, Charles, pension increased .:

1520

Spring, Henry E., pension increased .
Springer, Cornelius, pension increased .

1578 1267

Springer, R. H. and G. W.,

payment to ...

489

Springfield Arsenal, Mass. ,
appropriation for care, etc. for new water wheel, etc. for bridge..

458, 1121 458 1122

Springfield, Hiram J., pension .

1423

Springfield, Ill. ,

appropriation for public building

1089

for rent of temporary offices .

1089

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent

558

limit of cost increased, public building .

315

appropriation for .

426

Springfield Iron Company,

claim of Clarke, Post, and Martin, agents

for, referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

of Post, Martin & Co. , agents for, referred

to Court of Claims ; payment .

764

claim of, referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

Springfield, Mo. ,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery

464

Sproul, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229, 233

Sproul, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

229, 233

Spurling, Andrew B.,

pension increased .

1344

Square No. 189, D. C.,

portion of alley in, abandoned ....

789

Square No. 1113, Washington, D. C. ,

title in lot 1, released to Johanna C. Block . 1269

Squires, Phineas L.,

pension increased .

1667

Stackable, Edward R.,

duplicate gold certificates to be issued to . 1370

Stackpole, Josiah,

pension increased .

1597

Stackpole, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

230

Stadtmueller, Maria V. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1519

Staff Corps (see also General Staff Corps,

Army) .

appropriation for contingent expenses,

Chief of Staff.

927

Staff, Henry,

pension increased .

1718

Stafford, Frank,

pension increased ..

1743

2224

INDEX .

Stagg, Thomas, payment of French spoliation claim to administratrix of.
Stahle and Artist,
deficiency appropriation for services ...... Stahle, Edward F.,

Page. 220 573

deficiency appropriation for services .... 572,573

Stainer, Josef,

appropriation for repairs Sioux Indian

school ..

266

Stamford, Conn. , appropriation for improvement of harbor . 334

Stamped Envelopes, appropriation for manufacture; distribu-

tion

.... 117 , 1174

deficiency appropriation for manufacture . 1061

Stamps, Internal Revenue,

deficiency appropriation for rebate on tobacco ..

for redeeming .

8

time for redeeming documentary, etc. , ex-

tended ...

506

Stamps, Postage and Special Delivery,

appropriation for manufacture and distri-

bution ....

117, 1174

deficiency appropriation for manufacture. 23

may be made at Engraving and Printing

Bureau

117

Stanbridge, Canada,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Standard of Value, Philippines,

gold peso to become, when silver pesos in

circulation ..

952

Standards, National Bureau of (see National Bureau of Standards) .

Standing Rock Agency, N. Dak. , appropriation for Indian agent at ..

246, 983

Standing Rock Indian Reservation, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for survey, etc

262, 997

deficiency appropriation for surveying .... 1074 Stanley and Patterson,

duplicate check to, authorized ........... 1446

Stanley, Edgar A. ,

pension increased .

1478

Stanley, John M.,

pension increased .

1617

Stanley, William F.,

pension increased .

1556

Stanton, Marietta Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

1418

Stanwood, Louisa Josephine (widow),

pension ..

1728

Stapp, J. W.,

payment to

487

Star Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by 114, 1172

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by.

24,

33, 576, 588, 590 , 1062 , 1075, 1077

" Star," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of...

220

Starkey, Benjamin,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

216

Starkey, Elmer J.,

pension increased ..

1280

Starkweather, William A.,

payment to..

239

Starrat, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1580

State Authorities,

cooperation requested of, for uniform reg-

istration of vital statistics ......

1231

State Claims,

Page.

settlement of mutual claims of Virginia and South Carolina and the United States 235

Florida, Indian war..

235

Nevada, raising troops, etc. , 1861

reimbursing West Virginia, payments to

certain officers ...

236

refunding Wyoming, expenses Yellowstone

Park ...

236

State Courts,

concurrent jurisdiction with bankruptcy

courts to recover preferences, etc... 800

as to voidable conveyances, etc

800

State Department (see Department of State) . State Harbor Commissioners, San Francisco,

Cal. ,

deficiency appropriation for damages to

wharf..

1036

State Homes for Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for aid to ; deductions ... 472, 1137

deficiency appropriation for ....

15, 1049

State Surveys, Points to, appropriation for furnishing ....

437, 1098

State, War, and Navy Department Building,

appropriation for clerks, engineers, watch-

men, etc.

152,886

for fuel, repairs, etc ...

152,887

for repairs to granite columns, approach

to

152

use of public buildings, etc., for ceremonies

forbidden

152

Staten Island, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of channel

between New Jersey shore and .... 335

Staten Island, N. Y. , Light-House Depot,

appropriation for new oil house and coal

shed ..

430

for lamp shop .

1092

Staten Island Sound,

appropriation for improvement of ; con-

tracts ...

335

States,

deficiency appropriation for refund to, for

raising volunteers ..

30, 586, 1078

Stationery, Postal Service, appropriation for
Statistical Work,

113, 1171

of Executive Departments may be trans-

ferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor

830

Statistics,

decennial collection of special , under Di-

rector of Census

52

of trade between United States and its non-

contiguous territory required ..... 172

powers of Department of Commerce and

Labor as to collecting, etc ..

827

383

special collections by Census Office, on

order of Congress ..

53

Statistics, Bureau of, Treasury Department,

appropriation for officer in charge, clerks,

etc

139, 873

for expert services, etc

140,874

transferred to Department of Commerce

and Labor ..

826

Statistics Division, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries .

300, 1162

for general expenses

300, 1162

monthly crop report

300, 1162

report on consolidation with Weather

Bureau

300

Statues (see also Monuments ) ,

deficiency appropriation for base of, to Gen-

eral Sherman ..

758

Statutes at Large (see Laws of Congress ) .

INDEX .

2225

Stauffer, Ed, payment to

Page. 489

Stauffer, J. G.,

payment to

489

Steam Vessels, Foreign,

deficiency appropriation for special in-

spectors of

1072, 1076

Steamboat Inspection,

duties, etc. , of Secretary of the Treasury

as to, transferred to Secretary of

Commerce and Labor ..

829

Steamboat-Inspection Service, appropriation for Inspector - General,

clerks, etc....

141 , 875

deficiency appropriation for salaries .....

28

fees for inspection waived when discontinued by other countries
reciprocal acceptance of boiler inspection . removal to new quarters authorized ..... transferred to Department of Commerce
and Labor...
Steamboat Routes, Postal Service,

35 35 1082
826

appropriation for mail transportation

by .....

114, 1172

deficiency appropriation for mail trans-

portation by..

576, 1062 , 1075

Stearns, Elias P.,

pension increased .

1701

Stebbins, Francis E. (widow) ,

pension .

1296

Steel Blooms,

claims for refund of duties on, referred to

Court of Claims ..

764

payment of judgments

765

Steel, Oil- Tempered,

appropriation for, coast-defense guns .. 307 , 1025

maximum price

307, 1025

material for steel-wire guns .

307, 1025

Steel-Wire Seacoast Guns,

appropriation for material for

307

Steele, Elizabeth (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1346

Steele, George W.,

appointed a manager, National Home for

Disabled Volunteer Soldiers ...... 738

Steele, James T.,

pension ..

1402

Steensland, Ole,

pension ..

1240

Steifenhofer, Albert H.,

pension increased ..

1447

Steiger, Christiana (widow) ,

pension ..

1351

Stenographers to Committees, House of Repre-

sentatives,

appropriation for

127, 861

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

582, 861

Stephens, Christopher S.,

pension

1484

Stephens, H. N.,

payment to estate of .

1453

Stepens, Robert E.,

pension increased ..

1355

Stephenson, Benjamin F.,

statue to, may be erected on a reservation

in Washington, D. C ..

740

Sterling, Ill.,

purchase authorized of public building

site .

321

appropriation for

429, 1038

construction authorized of public building

at

1206

Stettin, Germany,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

VOL XXXII , PT 2--63

Steuben, General von, appropriation for statue of, etc commission to select site, etc.
Stevens, Elmer L., pension increased .
Stevens, John L.,
deficiency appropriation for services ..... Steward, Augusta,
to receive part of husband's pension ...... Stewart and Barr,

Page. 908 908 1248
1057
1496

payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ;
proof ...
distribution of French spoliation claim to heirs of....

219 1080

Stewart, Charles,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of.....

216

Stewart College,

payment to, for use and occupation ...... 234

Stewart, David, and Sons,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of surviving partner ....... 220

Stewart, Eliza (widow),

pension ..

1337

Stewart, India (mother) , pension
Stewart, Jennett ( widow) , pension increased ..

1306 1510

Stewart, Robert,

pension increased ..

1586

Stewart, Thomas,

payment to administrator of..

629

Stiles, Albion P. ,

pension increased ..

1403

Stillwater, Minn., construction of public ized at .
appropriation for Stilwell, Julia (widow) ,
pension increased .

building

author317
428, 1089
1712

Stimson, Monora (widow),

pension increased ..

1532

Stites, William D. ,

pension increased .

1459

Stith, Malvina C. ( widow), pension ..
Stock Exchange, Washington, D. C., personal tax on ..
Stockbridge, Napoleon B. , pension increased ..
Stockbridge, Wis. , appropriation for improvement of harbor of refuge ..

1290 622 1684
363

Stocker, Arvilla N. (widow) , pension .
Stockholm, Sweden, appropriation for consul-general at . for clerk hire ....

1725
77,808 818

Stocking, Jozeb,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of

226

Stockings, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1344

Stockslager, Guy N. ,

deficiency appropriation for services to Es-

kimos, Alaska .

558

Stockton, Cal. ,

appropriation for rectification of Stockton

and Mormon channels; contracts .. 368

1127

Stokes, Hon. J. W., late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

581

for contested-election expenses

581

2226

INDEX .

Stone, Caroline M. (widow) , pension increased..
Stone, Charles H., pension increased .
Stone, E. A., payment to
Stone, George H., pension increased ..
Stone Haven, Wis., preliminary examination of harbor, to be made
Stone, Ind. T., use for industrial and domestic purposes ; railroads ..
Stone, Mary ( widow), pension .
Stone, Robert, jr., payment of French spoliation claim to executor of...

Page. 1537 1323 489 1596
384
774 1509
227

Stoner, Mary,

payment to agent of

489

Stonesifer, Joseph,

pension increased ..

1535

Storage Reservoirs, act of Arizona authorizing, ratified ...... 386

Storekeeper- Gauger, Internal Revenue,

office created; duties and pay

492

Storer, Clement,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administratrix of

223

Storer, Samuel,

payment of French spoilation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223

Stores,

appropriation for paying claims for certain, allowed by Court of Claims .. 207

Story, Caleb W. ,

pension increased .

1405

Stotsenburg, Mary L. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1747

Stott, George W. ,

pension increased ..

1577

Stotts, Silas,

pension increased ..

1496

Stout, David,

payment to..

488

Stout, Florence M. (widow),

pension

1753

Stover, Clement,

payment of French spoilation claim to ad-

ministrator of .................

231

Stover, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

231

Stowers, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

1297

Stradling, James M.,

military record corrected ..

1277

Straits of Juan de Fuca, preliminary examination of, to be made for removing Duncan Rocks ...... 383

Stran, Thomas V.,

pension increased ..

1254

Stratford, Canada, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Straub, Edward, pension increased ...

1680

Strayer, H. R. , payment to
Strayer, Michael K. , pension increased .

489 1721

Street Extensions, D. C. , cost of, to be borne from District revenues 616

Street Railroad Companies, D. C.,

personal tax on, continued

619

Street Railways, D. C.,

Page.

extension of Eleventh street line of Ana-

costia and Potomac Company.

731

removal of tracks not used as required by

charter ..

534

switching on old Sixteenth street permitted

Metropolitan Company

731

time extended for constructing Washing-

ton and Gettysburg line ..

731

Street-Sweeping Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...

593, 959

Streeter, Lizana D. (widow ),

pension ..

1453

Streets, Avenues, etc. , D. C. ,

appropriation for improvements and re-

pairs .

596,961

for grading..

597,962

for condemnation ..

597,962

for repairs, etc

598, 964

for replacing sidewalks, etc ..

598, 964

for sweeping, etc.; work to be advertised

for

600, 965

for removing snow and ice

2,600, 965

deficiency appropriation for sweeping .. 94, 1042

for electric lighting .

560

regulation of use of telephone wires in

393

vacation of, for new terminal station, etc. 912

Stricksma, Egbert A. ,

pension

1412

Strohauer, Fannie E. (widow) ,

pension ...

1557

Strong, Charles, alias William Clark,

pension increased ..

1738

Strong, Robert R.,

pension increased ..

1409

Strong, Silas D.,

pension increased ..

1382

Strope, William M.,

pension increased .

1271

Stuart, Margaret A. (widow),

pension

1701

Stuber, Adam,

pension increased.......

1758

Sturgeon Bay and Lake Michigan Ship Canal,

appropriation for improvement of, and

harbor of refuge...

345, 1126

Stuttgart, Germany, appropriation for consul at . for clerk hire..

82, 814 86, 818

Styles, Benjamin E. ,

pension ...

1420

Subdivisions, D. C. ,

appropriation for surveys, etc. , subur-

ban ....

597,962

examination and record of plats of..

544

assigning excess or deficiency in feet of... 544

application to Georgetown squares .

545

orders obliterating, to be filed with plat;

expenses ..

545

Submarine Defense School (see Fort Totten,

N. Y. ).

Subsidiary Coins, limitation on coinage of, removed ........ 1109
Subsistence Department, Army,

appropriation for post commissary-ser-

geants; longevity ...

930

for pay of officers; longevity

510, 931

for supplies, etc

513,934

for payments; civilian employees, etc. 513, 934 for commutation of rations, etc. .... 513, 935

deficiency appropriation for .... 29 , 585, 589 , 1073 Suburban Streets, D. C.,

appropriation for constructing ......... 597 , 962 "Success," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

225

INDEX .

2227

Sudsburg, Helena (widow) ,

Page.

pension

1429

Sugar Production,

appropriation for investigating beet, etc. 295, 1156

for chemical examination of plants .. 297, 1158

Sullinger, Alexander T. , alias Alexander Patillo,

pension increased ..

1753

Sullivan, D. A. J. ,

deficiency appropriation for investigating liability ofsureties on contract with .
reimbursement to sureties of public building contract, Charleston, S. C ......
Sullivan Falls, Me., appropriation for improvement of harbor.

1037 1610 331

Sullivan, Hannah,

payment to

1453

Sullivan, John,

pension .

1617

Sullivan, John D. ,

pension increased .

1528

Sullivan, Michael O. ,

pension increased .

1727

Sulphur River, Tex., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 383

Sulphur Springs, Ind. T. ,

provision for purchase from Choctaws and

Chickasaws

655

Suman, Albert H., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211
Summerl and Brown,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner ... 218, 222, 225

Summerline, Hardy, payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 213
"Suncook," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation, referred to

Court of Claims

244

Sun Mutual Insurance Company, New York,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement ..

1079

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations,

under the Treasury Department, for public

buildings

420, 1083

marine hospitals ...

423

quarantine stations

423, 1091

additional, under omnibus act

424

light-houses, beacons, and fog signals . 430 , 1091

detailed statement of all lands owned

by Government

432

Light-House Establishment

432, 1093

Life-Saving Service ..

433, 1095

Revenue-Cutter Service .

434, 1096

Engraving and Printing Bureau

435, 1097

Coast and Geodetic Survey .

436, 1097

Smithsonian Institution ..

439, 1101

Fish Commission ....

440, 1102

Interstate Commerce Commission ... 444, 1107

miscellaneous: Louisiana Purchase Ex-

position .. Denver mint

445, 1108 1109

United States securities .

448, 1109

public buildings ...

448, 1110

Alaskan seal and salmon fisheries . 449, 1111

Chinese exclusion

450, 1112

immigration .... tobacco rebate .

450, 1112 450

quarantine service .

450, 1112

prevention of epidemics ..

450, 1112

under Interior Department, for buildings .. 451 , 1113

Freedmen's Hospital ..

1113

Capitol and grounds.

451, 1113

building for House of Representatives .. 1113

public lands.

451, 1114

Geological Survey

454, 1117

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations- Con- Page. tinued.

under Interior Department, miscellaneous,

Census Office ...

456, 1119

Commissioner of Railroads .

456, 1119

Hot Springs Reservation, Ark national parks ....
Supreme Court Reports reindeer for Alaska ..

456, 1119 456, 1119
456 457, 1120

Government Hospital for Insane.. 457, 1120

Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institu-

tion

457, 1120

Howard University..

457, 1121

under War Department, for armories and

arsenals ...

458, 1121

buildings and grounds, D. C...
Sherman statue. Grant memorial
offices for President ..
extraordinary repairs, House

Washington, 458, 1122 460 460 460
etc. , White 460

Engineer Department; harbors, etc. 462, 1124

national cemeteries, etc.

463, 1128

miscellaneous

464, 1129

relief of distress in Philippines

1129

military posts

464, 1129

military parks.. artificial limbs, etc.

466, 1130 467, 1131

New York Harbor..

467, 1132

Volunteer Soldiers' Home..

468, 1132

State or Territorial Homes

472, 1137

back pay, bounty, and commutation of

rations ..

472, 1137

arrears of pay, war with Spain.

1138

under Navy Department, wharf, Newport,

R. I ..

1138

under Department of State, for Mexican

boundary line ....

478

Canadian boundry, west of Rocky Moun-

tains ...

1138

Alaskan Boundary Tribunal .

1138

new examination of fur-seal life, etc .... 1138

examination of Pan-American Railway . 1138

international cooperation for gold and

silver standards ....

1138

under Department of Agriculture, new

building

1139

under Department of Justice, for courthouse, Washington , D. C ....... 473 , 1139

penitentiary, Fort Leavenworth ,

Kans

473, 1139

Atlanta, Ga

473

miscellaneous, Opinions of Attorney-

General..

1139

defense in claims

473, 1139

Spanish Treaty Claims Commission .. 473,

474, 1139

insular and Territorial affairs ..

474, 1140

under judicial branch, for United States

courts

475, 1140

United States penitentiaries

476, 1142

Court of Private Land Claims .

1144

under legislative branch, for statement of

appropriations .. bust of McKinley .

479, 1144 1144

Botanic Garden

479, 1145

public printing and binding . all sums for salaries to be in full

479, 1145 481 , 1146

no illustrations to be made without special

authority

1147

conference committee authorized to in-

clude additional public buildings'

appropriations in

1771

2228

INDEX .

SuperintendentofCapitol Building and Grounds, Page.

appropriation for, clerks, etc ....

161, 896

for engineers, etc., House of Represent-

atives ..

125, 859

for engineers, etc. , Senate

123, 856

furniture of House of Representatives to be

under direction of

125

office created ..

20

Superintendent of Documents, reserved sets of documents to be bound

and delivered if not called for in

two years

746

Superintendent ofIndian Schools, appropriation for pay; traveling expenses . 247

Superior Bay, Lake Superior,

appropriation for lighting

433, 1094

Superior, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 346,

462

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1089

limit of cost increased, public building . 1205

Supervising Architect, Treasury Department, appropriation for, draftsmen, etc ....... 135 , 869 maximum expenditures; report of em-

ployees ...

869

deficiency appropriation for draftsmen,

etc. , additional .

1034

Supplements to the Revised Statutes, distribution to Senators and Representa-

tives directed ..

631

appropriation for

631

Supplies,

appropriation for paying claims for certain, allowed by Court of Claims ... 207

Supplies, Postal Service,

appropriation for freight on

115

four-year contracts authorized

114

Supplies, United States Courts,

appropriation for; expenditure .

476 , 1142

Supply Fund, Naval,

deficiency appropriation for; transfer of

appropriation

17

Supreme Court ofthe United States,

appropriation for Chief and associate jus-

tices .

169,905

for marshal

169, 905

for clerks to justices

169, 905

for printing and binding

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for increase in

salaries of justices ..

1065

for paying decree, Manila Bay prize

money .

1072

anti-trust cases to be reviewed by, in event

of divided opinion of circuit court .. 823

appeal direct to, from circuit court..

823

jurisdiction in actions from Philippine Su-

preme Court ..

695

salaries of justices increased

825

Supreme Court, D. C.,

appropriation for justices .

170, 906

for printing and binding

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for increase in

salaries

1065

for paying judgment, Potomac Flats

cases ...

1071

auditor's report upon an account, basis of

exceptions

528

amendments allowed in all proceedings . 530

authority over lunatics and drunkards

transferred to equity court

524

clerk to appoint necessary employees

527

clerk's power to take acknowledgment ... 527

discretion of court as to costs, etc. , by poor

suitors ...

527

fees, probate, to be paid register of wills . 527

Supreme Court, D. C. --Continued. jurisdiction defined .. in Potomac Flats case continued .
salaries of judges, increased . salary of clerk limited ; disposal of excess
of fees

Page. 522 522 825
609

Supreme Court, Philippines,

appointment of justices, etc....

695

Supreme Court Reports, appropriation for additional distribution of, directed ..

456, 1119 630

complete sets for new offices, etc ...

630

additional copies to be delivered by pub-

lishers ...

631

distribution of digests, directed

631

appropriation for purchase of; maximum

price

631

Surgeon-General, Army,

to detail expert for advisory board, hygi-

enic laboratory

713

member of board to prescribe rules for licenses to virus, etc. , establishments . 729

Surgeon- General Marine-Hospital Service, Supervising,
member of board to prescribe rules for licenses to virus, etc. , establishments . 729

Surgeon- General, Navy,

to detail expert for advisory board, hygi-

enic laboratory..

713

member of board to prescribe rules for licenses to virus, etc. , establishments . 729

Surgeon- General, Public Health and Marine-

Hospital Service,

office established ; salary

712

Surgeon-General's Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc for rent.
for library.

150,885 151,885 518,940

for printing and binding; catalogue of

library..

480, 1145

Survey of Northern and Northwestern Lakes,

appropriation for expenses .

467, 1131

Surveying Public Lands (see also Public

Lands ) , appropriation for ; rates ..

453, 1116

preferences ; occupied townships, etc. 453, 1116

allowance, heavily timbered, etc.,

lands

453, 1116

extra rates, California, etc ..

453, 1116

resurveys ; mineral, etc. , localities . 453, 1116

for private land claims ...

454, 1117

for abandoned military reservations. 454, 1117

for boundary, Colorado, New Mexico,

and Arizona, continued .

1117

for boundary line, Idaho and Montana 1117

deficiency appropriation for .. 31 , 587, 589, 1057, 1074, 1076

for certain deputy surveyors.

1057

manual of instruction, 1902, etc., made

part of contracts for....

120

Surveyor, D. C. ,

functions of office of

544

jurisdiction of Commissioners over records

repealed ....

544

duties as to plats of subdivisions..

544

to assign excess or deficiency in subdi-

visions of squares ....

544

application to Georgetown

545

duty in adjusting lines of buildings

545

Surveyors- General,

appropriation for, and their clerks ..... 162, 897

Surveyor's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries, etc.....

594, 959

for file cases; photolithographing ; resur-

vey .

596

deficiency appropriation for salaries ..

11

INDEX .

2229

Surveys,

Page.

appropriation for ocean and lake, Navy . 668, 1182

rivers and harbors, to be paid for from

specified improvement .

371

Susquehanna River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of, Havre

de Grace ...

350

Susquehanna River, Pa.,

preliminary examination of, to be made,

below Northumberland .

382

Wilkesbarre..

382

Suwanee River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 354

Swamp Land Claims and Indemnity, appropriation for adjusting .....

452, 1115

deficiency appropriation for adjusting .. 21 , 1056

Swan, Thomas,

pension increased ...............

1473

Swansea, Wales,

appropriation for consul at .

82,815

Swart, Mrs. M. C. ,

payment to

490

Swartz Brothers,

payment to

489

Swartz, Christian L., payment to
Sweatt, Charles L., pension increased ..
Sweden and Norway, appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation ... Sweeney, Mary (widow),
pension .

489 1261
76, 807 77,808
1331

Sweeney, Patrick,

payment to

490

Sweet, Isaiah,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

215

Swett, Stephen R.,

pension increased ..

1691

Swinomish Slough, Wash., appropriation for improvement of ........ 371
Switzerland,

appropriation for minister to

76, 807

for secretary of legation ....

808

Sydney, New South Wales,

appropriation for consul at

84, 815

for clerk hire ..

818

Sydney, Nora Scotia,

appropriation for consul at

85,816

Symonds, Frederick M.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts of..

10

Syracuse, N. Y. ,

examination of public building directed;

report

326

T.

Taber, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

224

Taber, Henry S.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts

556

Tacoma Mill Company,

deficiency appropriation for compensation .

7

Tacoma, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts, etc.

347, 1126

construction authorized of public building

at

1206

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing

1038

immediate transportation privileges ex-

tended to

636

Tacoma, Wash. -Continued .

Page.

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

383

purchase of public building site authorized
appropriation for . Taft, Sarah Frances (widow) ,
pension Taggart, Annie D. ( widow) ,
pension . Tah ko we ah, Kiowa Indian,
may sell half of her allotment

320 429 1332 1296 1008

Tahiti, Society Islands, appropriation for consul at for mails to .

85, 817 116, 1173

Tait, Narcissa (widow),

pension ...

1286

Talbert, William Jasper,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses ..

581

Talbott, Mary A. (widow), pension increased .
Talcott, Mary H. (widow) , pension .
Talbott, Sarah,

1759 1742

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ...

210

Talburtt, George W. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ....

209

Tallahatchie River, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

355

preliminary examination of, to be made;

mouth of the Coldwater to Bates-

ville .

380

Tallman, Emily J. (widow), pension increased ..
Tamatare, Madagascar, appropriation for consul at

1315 ...... 84, 816

Tampa Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of channel,

Port Tampa to Gulf..

463, 1125

Tampa, Fla.,

appropriation for public building.

1089

limit of cost increased, public building... 311

Tampico, Mexico, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .....

84, 816 86, 818

Tamsui, Formosa,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Tangier Light, Morocco, appropriation for contribution ...

... 79, 810

Tangier, Morocco,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

for interpreter, etc.

78, 809

Tangipahoa River, La. , preliminary examination of, to be made..
Tanner, Nathan,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Tanner, William D. ,
pension increased . Tar River, N. C. ,
appropriation for improvement of .. Tarbox, Asa,
pension increased....

378 209 1438 351 1615

Tariff (see also Customs Revenue ) ,

provisions for trade with Philippines ..

54

duty on tea repealed from January 1 , 1903 . 99

Tariffs, Railway,

penalty for failing to file or observe ....

847

Tate, Mary ( widow), pension increased.

1394

Tattersall, Edward,

pension increased .

1739

333333

2230

INDEX .

Taunton, Mass., deficiency appropriation for post-office building
Taunton River, Mass.,
appropriation for improvement of ....... Tax- Sale Certificates, D. C.,
appropriation for preparing Tax Sales, D. C.,
list of real property in arrears to be made annually
publication and notice of sale. auction sales ; bids by collector for District
payment; certificate deed in fee if not redeemed in two years..
all taxes to be paid before issuing .. property bid off by collector...
auction sale and deed in two years if not redeemed
redemption by minors, etc.; terms .. taxes not released on failure to enforce
liens .....
issue of certificates on property bid off by collector
deed to holder of certificate if property not redeemed
application of provision to prior sales readvertisement of canceled sales ...
redemption by owner or person interested . list of property sold to be filed with re-
corder of deeds .
disposition of surplus return of purchase money if sale invalid.. payment, if deed set aside by decree of
court
advertising charge; inspection of records . inconsistent_laws repealed ; interest rate
on redemption unchanged ............ Taxation, D. C. ,
REAL ESTATE,
rate on assessed valuation of, and improvements
reassessment of new subdivisions exemption of educational...
assessments for street extensions payable in installments
deduction of benefit assessments from awards for damages .
PERSONAL PROPERTY,
board of personal-tax appraisers created . schedules to be prepared and delivered .
assessment by board .. penalty on failure to make
rejection, etc. , of unsatisfactory returns; appeals ...
penalty for false affidavits .. rates payable on assessed valuation of
tangible.. by general merchandise dealers .. by hotel proprietors .. by incorporated banks, and trust, gas,
electric lighting, and telephone companies street-railroad and insurance com-
panies by bonding companies by savings banks by corporations not specified ; deduc-
tion of real estate held . exception
by building associations . exemptions, institutions.
libraries, clothing, etc .. household property , etc .......
board of personal-tax appeals; duties consideration of omissions .

Page. 28
348 958
632
634 634 634 634 634
635 635 635
635 635 635
616 616 616 .616 616 617 617 618 618 618 618 618 618 619
619 619 619 619 619 620 620 620 620 620 620 620

Taxation, D. C. -Continued. PERSONAL PROPERTY-Continued.
proceedings for collecting unpaid taxes . advertisements; reports .
time of payment ; penalties . tax on private banks; description ..
on brokers, general; Washington Stock Exchange.
members of outside exchanges ..

Page.
621 621

exemption of bankers .. on note brokers ; exception . on brokers and banks, payable July 1 . penalty for violations ...

appropriations for employees and ex-

penses .

622

LICENSE TAXES,

licenses required for trades, etc ........... application to assessor; requirements;
assignment .. assessor to issue
separate licenses for each trade, etc term ; unauthorized use; posting ..

exhibition of living targets forbidden

tax on druggists ..

on auctioneers ; returns of sales, etc ..

on commission merchants .

623

on cattle dealers ...

624

onowners of passengervehicles ; badges 624

on livery-stable proprietors ...

624

on autovehicle-barn proprietors ; additional...

on coach lines ..

624

on real-estate brokers or agents .

624

on investment companies

624

on railroad-ticket brokers ..

625

on hotels ...

on restaurants, lunch rooms, etc.

on theaters, balls, etc.; exemptions ..

on exhibitions, shows, etc. on conductors of concerts, etc

on circus owners .

on racing, athletic, etc. , grounds.

on picnic, etc., grounds .

on skating rink, fair, etc. , building

owners

626

on shooting galleries, gymnasiums,

etc

626

on merry-go-rounds, etc.

on slot-machine exhibitions .

on Turkish, etc. , bath proprietors ..

on massage establishments

626

on mediums, fortune tellers, etc

626

on hucksters of produce...

626

on fuel hucksters

on peddlers on brewers and brewers' agents ..
on distillers .

on liquor dealers and barrooms

on billposters, etc.; regulations on inflammable-oil structures, etc.

on laundries ......

on employment offices on second-hand dealers .

on pawnbrokers .

on billiard tables, etc. , keepers .

-628

on certain trades, etc...

628

penalty for violations .

628

signification of specified words ..

628

police or building regulations not re-

pealed ....

629

Taxes,

on oleomargarine ....

194

not artifically colored .

194

on manufacture of adulterated and reno-

vated butter .....

196

INDEX .

2231

Taxes, D. C., payable in the month of May. installments in November and May
on real estate, 1903, not payable until May, 1903 ..
penalty 1 per cent a month after June 1 for arrears prior to July 1 , 1899, reduced to 6 per cent ... to be paid by December 31 , 1902 .
of railroad property under provisions of union-station act ..

Page. 33 33
739 33
34 34
914

Taxes, Special ( see Special Taxes ) . Taylor, Alexander H. ,
pension increased .
Taylor, Angeline H. (widow) , pension ..
Taylor, Charles, payment to ..
Taylor, Elisha B., alias Elisha T. Bisbee, pension increased ..
Taylor, Emma L., deficiency appropriation for, administratrix of Henry L. Taylor ................
Taylor, Franklin, pension increased .
Taylor, George, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1723 1480 491 1257
572 1301
220

Taylor, Henry,

pension increased .

1239

Taylor, Henry M., pension increased ..

1330

Taylor, James, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 212

Taylor, James B. ,

pension increased .

1683

Taylor, Jane (widow),

pension .

1246

Taylor, Mary (widow ),

pension increased .

1241

Taylor, Susan J. (widow) ,

pension ...

1506

Taylor, T. T.,

payment to

491

Taylor, W. C. ,

payment to

1458

Taylor, William G. ,

pension increased..

1375

Tea, duty on, repealed from January 1 , 1903 .. 99
Tea Culture,

appropriation for investigations ....... 293, 1155

Tebbetts, Walter G.,

pension increased..

1682

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Telegraph and Telephone Service, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for supplies ..

561

Telegraph Connecting Capitol and Departments,

appropriation for

461 , 1124

Telegraph, etc., D. C. (see Electrical Department, D. C. ) .

Telephone Companies, D. C.,

personal tax on ..

619

Telephone Wires, D. C.,

in certain areas to be put under ground .. 393

underground system may be extended

393

plans, etc. , to be approved by Commis-

sioners...

393

penalty for failure to remove poles, etc .. 394

poles permitted in alleys, and streets out-

side special area

394

temporary permits for use of poles .

394

regulations of construction, etc.; use by

fire and police service ...

395

repairs and renewals authorized

395

Temple, William H., pension increased..

Page. 1424

Teneriffe, Spain, appropriation for consul at

85, 817

Tennessee and Coosa Railroad,

homestead certificates allowed parties hold-

ing title to lands in Alabama from .. 1222 Tennessee Central Railway,

may bridge Emory River, Harriman , Tenn . 499 Tennessee River,

appropriation for improvement of, River-

ton to mouth ..

357

Colbert and Bee Tree shoals ; con-

tracts ...

357

above Chattanooga

357

below Chattanooga

1127

for lighting..

433, 1094

bridge authorized across, Lewis Bluff to

Guntersville, Ala

921

Marion County, Tenn ..

201

mouth of Caney Creek

492

Tensas River, La .,

appropriation for improvement of

355

Tents,

to be loaned Grand Army encampment,

Washington, D. C

749

Knights of Pythias encampment, San

Francisco .

187

Texas Reunion Association, Dallas, Tex . 737

Tenure of Property,

convention with Guatemala as to

1944

supplementary convention with Great

Britain relative to

1914

Terminal Company, D. C. (see also Union Rail-

road Station, D. C. ) ,

provision for new terminal station, etc. ,

Washington, D. C

909

Terminal Station (see Union Railroad Station,

D. C. ).

Terrill, Virginia, (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1261

Territorial Homes for Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for aid to ; deductions .. 472 , 1137

deficiency appropriation for .....

15, 1049

Territories,

appropriation for government in ... additional coal-mine regulations .

147, 882 631

deeds affecting lands in, acknowledged

before notaries public in Porto Rico

and Philippines, valid

88

general laws, not applicable to Philippines . 692

provisions for automatic car couplers, etc. ,

extended to

943

train robberies in ; punishment .

727

Terry, Susan, (widow) ,

pension

1289

Testimonials,

acceptance of, by James M. Miller, Oliver

D. Norton, and Edwin V. Morgan,

authorized

1262

Testimony, power vested in Commissioner of Corporations to secure ..
Teton Forest Reserve, Wyo.,
proclamation establishing consolidating, with Yellowstone Forest Reserve ..
Texarkana, Tex., terms of court .
Texas,

828 2000 2030 927

bulletin on oil and gas fields and geology of western Gulf Coast, ordered printed .
Texas and New Mexico Indian War,
pensions to survivors, etc. , of... Texas Eastern Judicial District,
new division created

1764 399 926

terms, Texarkana ..

927

2232

INDEX .

11888 888 88 8888865 8282 88 888

Texas Fever (see Cattle Diseases ) . Texas Judicial Districts,
divided into northern, eastern, southern, and western ....
counties constituting northern district eastern district ..
southern district . western district ..

Page. 65

judges of northern, eastern, and western

districts to continue as such

65

of southern district to be appointed ..

65

clerks assigned

65

marshals, northern, eastern, and western districts, to continue as such
southern district to be appointed

district attorneys, northern and western districts, to continue as such..
foreastern, assigned to southern district. for eastern district to be appointed.. appointments to offices ; salaries . disposal of pending causes .. criminal proceedings .. return of process

real actions to be brought in district where

lands are situate ..

68

terms, southern district

68

northern district

69

eastern district western district.

69, 927 69,785

southern district, marshal and district at-

torney ..

69

clerk and deputies ; residence

69

referees in bankruptcy to continue as such;

proceedings

69

inconsistent laws repealed .

69

tenure of office not changed

69

Texas Reunion Association,

loan of tents to, authorized ..

737

Texas Southern Judicial District,

deficiency appropriation for judge

578

Dimmit County transferred to western dis-

trict from

820

888 222

Texas Western Judicial District,

Dimmit County transferred from southern

district to .

820

terms of court, Austin

785

Waco ...

785

San Antonio

785

El Paso ..

785

Thames River, Conn., appropriation for improvement of for lighting

349 433 , 1094

Thanksgiving Day, proclamation designating, 1901 designating, 1902

1987 2028

Thatcher, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1351

Thayer Brothers,

payment to administrator of surviving part-

ner, refund of taxes ...

242

Thayer, Newton,

pension increased ..

1756

The Hague (see Hague Convention ) .

Theaters, D. C., license tax on managers, etc. , of.................... 625

Theatrical Performances, D. C. ,

license tax on

625

" Theresa," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

219

" Thetis," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of.

221

Thierman and Frost,

claim referred to Court of Claims .

1443

Third Assistant Postmaster-General,

Page.

appropriation for, superintendents, etc. 165 , 901

for postal service, office of...

117, 1174

for traveling expenses, D. C.

1174

Third- Class Mail Matter,

provisions for remailing .

1176

Third Light-House District,

appropriation for relief light-vessel ...... 1092

Thomas, Anna J. (widow) ,

pension

1329

Thomas, Charles R. ,

deficiency appropriation for contested -elec-

tion expenses .

581

Thomas, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1317

Thomas, Daniel,

pension increased ..

1497

Thomas, Henry,

pension increased ...

1587

Thomas Jefferson Memorial Association, D. C. , medallions to be struck at the mint for... 1227

Thomas, Hester (widow),

pension .

1293

Thomas, Hiram H. ,

pension increased.

1467

Thomas, James M. ,

pension increased .

1563

Thomas, James P.,

pension increased .

1556

Thomas, John W.,

pension

1496

Thomas, William H.,

pension increased .

1458

Thomas, Willie,

pension increased .

1520

Thomason, Joel,

pension .

1708

Thompson, Albert W. ,

pension increased .

1750

Thompson, Charles W.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses ..

582

Thompson, Daniel F.,

pension increased..

1409

Thompson, Edward,

pension increased .

1329

Thompson, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .

1666

Thompson, Ervin,

pension increased .

1627

Thompson, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1254

Thompson, Frank P.,

appropriation for

269

Thompson, George,

pension increased .

1591

Thompson, George K.,

pension increased .

1411

Thompson, George W. ,

pension increased .

1250

Thompson, Hiram S. ,

pension increased..

1616

Thompson, Isabella H. ( widow),

pension increased .

1407

Thompson, James,

pension increased ...

1522

Thompson, John D.,

pension increased..

1558

Thompson, Jonathan O.,

pension increased .

1434

Thompson, Ole,

pension increased ..

1532

Thompson, R. M.,

sureties on bond of, released ..........

1603

INDEX .

2233

Thompson, Robert,

Page .

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

233

Thompson, Robert F., appropriation for compiling laws, etc
Thompson, Samuel L., pension increased ..
Thompson, William, pension increased..
Thompson, William R. , pension increased .
Thomson, Alexander J. , pension .
Thorndike, Israel, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

267 1681 1596 1594 1726
229

Thornton, H. G.,

payment to

490

Thornton, H. H. , and others, deficiency appropriation for judgment to. 24
Thrasher, Robert K. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of

211

" Three Friends," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

233

Three Rivers, Canada,

appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Ticket Brokers, D. C. , Railroad,

license tax on

625

Tickfaw River, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of, and

tributaries

355

Ticonderoga River, N. Y. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Tientsin, China,

appropriation for consul at

81, 813

Tillamook Bay and Bar, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of ........ 347

Tillinghast, Jane A. (widow),

pension increased .

1625

Tillman, George C. ,

pension increased .

1444

Tillotson, Frances A. (widow) ,

pension .

1437

Tillson, Ann E. (widow) ,

pension increased......

1517

Tilton, Daniel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Timber Depredations,

appropriation for preventing ...

452, 1115

deficiency appropriation for preventing,

etc

21 , 1056

Timber, Ind. T., use for industrial and domestic purposes ;

railroads ...

774

penalty for unlawful cutting, etc...

774

Timber Lands,

provisions for, in Philippines .

696

Timmons, Hannah A. (widow) ,

pension ..

1404

Tisdale, James,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

228

Tisdale, Margaret (widow) ,

pension .

1479

Titus, Eli,

pension increased .

1638

Tobacco,

appropriation for expenses, inspection of

exported ....

142, 877

for investigating soils, etc

297, 1159

for rebate on stamped

450

deficiency appropriation for rebate of in-

ternal-revenue taxes on ..

8, 1040

Tobacco- Continued. discount on stamps repealed .. packages authorized

Page. 97 97

penalty for attaching tickets of chance, etc., with packages of, cigarettes, etc. 715
reduction of internal-revenue tax on manu-

factured

96

sale of perique, in bulk from one manufacturer to another or for export

without tax .

714

tax ondealers and manufacturers repealed . 97

Tod, Margaret S. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1488

Todd, James,

pension increased .

1319

Todd, Stephen B.,

pension increased .

1486

Togus, Me.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

469, 1134

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home ..

14, 1049

Tokyo, Japan,

appropriation for rent, legation building . 78 , 810 Toledo, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 342,

463, 1125

for light and fog-signal station, harbor

entrance

431

acquiring new public building site ; alter-

native site ; recommendations for

new building, etc.

323

appropriation for

429

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing; additional for site.

1039

estimate and plans of new building to be

submitted ..

1212

site for public building to be acquired; selection, cost increased ..
Tolfree, James F., payment to
Tolles, David N., pension increased ..
Tomac Harbor, Conn.,
preliminary examination of, to be made.. Tomah, Wis.,

1212 1600 1665 376

appropriation for Indian school ....... 273 , 1005

Tomb, William Victor,

promotion in Navy, authorized ........

1504

Tombigbee River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts, etc..............

354

for improvement of; locks and dams ... 1126

for improvement of, from mouth to Dem-

opolis ....

355

survey for lock sites authorized ..

354

Tomlinson, David,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of.....

219

Tompkins, Emmett,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses

581

Tompkins, Jane E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1308

Tompkins, Rachel M. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrators of .

217

Tonawanda, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 335

Tongue, Hon. T. H. , late a Representative in

Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow

1067

Tongue River Agency, Mont., appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246 , 983
Tonkawa Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of................ 256 , 993

2234

INDEX .

Tonnage Tax, applicable to foreign vessels from Philippines duties, etc. , of Secretary of the Treasury over, to be transferred to Secretary of Commerce and Labor ..

Page. 54
829

Trabue, William K.,
deficiency appropriation for Tracy, Henry N.,
pension increased . Tracy, Robert A.,
pension increased ..

Page. 586
1270 1755

refunded steamers " Santiago de Cuba,

" Santiago," 46 Cienfuegos, " and

" Olinda"

771

Toops, Stephen A. ,

charge of desertion removed ....

1287

Topliff, Austin L. ,

pension increased ..

1687

Topographer, Post- Office Department,

appropriation for, draftsmen, etc ....... 166, 901

Toppan, Edward,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of

232

Topper, David, pension increased .
Toronto, Canada, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ...

1441
84, 816 86, 818

Torpedo Station, Newport, R. I. ,
appropriation for expenses for public works ..

666, 1180 677, 1189

Torpedoes for Harbor Defense,

appropriation for constructing structures,

etc

306, 1025

for purchase of submarine mines, etc. 306, 1025

deficiency appropriation for ....

29

Torrington, Conn.,

construction of public building authorized

at

317

appropriation for

428, 1089

Torts, D. C.,

Trade-Marks and Trade-Labels Convention,

with Guatemala

1866

Trade Statistics,

between United States and its noncontigu-

ous territory required .

172

Tradewater River, Ky.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 378

Train Robberies,

punishment for, in the Territories .

727

accomplices; proofs .

728

Training Ships,

construction of two steel, sailing

1202

one wooden brig ..

1202

Trammell, R. W. and J. F.,

payment to .

491

Transcripts of Records, Public Lands, appropriation for furnishing . deficiency appropriation for..

453, 1116 1,759

Transit of Merchandise,

laws for bonded, applied to Philippine

trade

711

Transit Pay,

appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

officers

... 76, 808

Transportation, Army,

appropriation for .

516, 938

payment to land-grant roads not bond

aided

516, 938

deficiency appropriation for

29,

586, 589, 1073, 1076, 1077

joining of counts as to, and contracts allowed in a declaration ....
Towle, Daniel G., pension increased .
Town Council, Alaska, general powers increased .. ordinances for town improvement, protection, etc taxing powers; real, personal, and license taxes .
to provide for municipal magistrate, ordinances, etc ....
Town River, Mass., appropriations for improvement of .......
Town Sites, commutation of homestead entries for, of

Transportation Facilities, 5431 duty of Department of Commerce and La-

bor as to.

826

1665 Transportation, Interstate (see Common Car-

riers ) .

945 Transportation Lines,

agreement to be made with , for paying tax

945

on alien immigrants coming over-

land .

1214

945 Transportation, Mail ( see Mail Transportation ) .

Transports, Army,

946 appropriation for expenses of....

516,938

not to be sold without consent of Congress . 938

348 service of, to be continued

939

Transue, Andrew Y.,

pension increased..

1322

lands ceded by Wichitas, etc. , Okla-

homa ....

63

entries for, on ceded Indian lands in Min-

nesota .

820

Town Sites, Ind. T.,

appropriation for expenses, surveying, etc. ,

in Choctaw, etc. , nations...

259, 996

appointment of commissioner in case of

vacancy .

259,996

limits of certain small towns to be defined . 259

disposal of lands in ..........

259

provisions for, agreement with Choctaws

and Chickasaws

652

Cherokee lands ...

722

survey, etc. , by private parties at railroad

stations .

996

Trask, Mary C. (widow) ,

pension

1371

Traverse City, Mich. , purchase of public-building site authorized 320

appropriation for

429

construction of public building authorized

at

1206

deficiency appropriation for

1038

Travis, James M.,

pension increased ..

1708

Travis, John P.,

pension increased ...

1662

Treason,

testimony necessary to convict, in Philip-

pines ...

55

Towner, Samantha (widow),

Treasurer of the United States,

pension .

1488 appropriation for, assistant, cashier, etc. 137, 871

Townsend, Clara B. (widow) ,

for superintendent, redemption national

pension

1343

currency, clerks, etc.

137, 872

Townsend, Samuel,

for sinking-fund office, D. C.....

593, 958

patent in fee simple to

1009 deficiency appropriation for clerks, etc ...

6

Toxin,

for clerks, redemption national currency . 1033

regulation of sale in District of Columbia,

for counters, redemption national cur-

and interstate traffic in ..

728

rency .

1034

INDEX .

2235

Treasurers of Towns, Alaska,

Page.

bond required ; disposition of license

moneys .

946

Treasury Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

clerks, etc...

133, 867

for chief clerk, assistant superintendent,

clerks, etc ...

133, 867

for engineers, watchmen, laborers, etc. 133, 868

for divisions in Secretary's office, clerks,

etc

134, 868

Revenue-Cutter cadets to serve three

years

869

for Supervising Architect, messenger . 135, 869

draftsmen, engineers, etc..

135, 869

for Comptroller of the Treasury, assist-

ant, clerks, etc

135, 870

payment to N. H. Thompson ..

136

for Auditor for Treasury Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

136, 870

for Auditor for War Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ....

136, 870

for Auditor for Navy Department, dep-

uty, clerks, etc

136, 870

for Auditor for Interior Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

137, 871

for Auditor for State, etc. , Departments,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

137,871

for Auditor for Post-Office Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ...

137, 871

for Treasurer, assistant, clerks, etc ... 137, 871

for Register, assistant, clerks, etc

138, 872

for Comptroller of the Currency, deputy,

clerks, etc.....

138, 872

for Commissioner of Internal Revenue,

deputies, etc .....

138, 872

for Light-House Board, chief clerk,

etc

139,873

for Superintendent Life- Saving Service,

assistant, clerks, etc ..

139, 873

for Commissioner of Navigation , clerks,

* etc

139, 873

for Director Bureau of Engraving and

Printing, clerks, etc ....

139, 873

for officer in charge, Bureau of Statistics,

clerks, etc...

139, 873

for chief of Secret Service Division,

clerks, etc ....

140, 874

for Director National Bureau of Stand-

ards, assistants, etc ...

140, 874

for Director of the Mint, clerks, etc .. 140, 874

for Surgeon-General Marine-Hospital

Service, clerks, etc ..

141

for Surgeon- General Public Health, etc. ,

Service, clerks, etc ..

875

for Inspector-General Steamboat-Inspec-

tion Service, clerks, etc..

141, 875

for Commissioner-General of Immigra-

tion, clerks, etc ....

141 , 875

for contingent expenses.

141 , 875

for rent ..

141, 876

for internal-revenue collectors, deputies,

agents, etc..

142,876

forsalaries, assistant treasurers' offices . 143 , 877

for salaries, mints and assay offices... 145, 879

for government in the Territories

147, 882

for Solicitor, clerks, etc.

168, 904

for civil expenses under.

420, 1083

for public buildings ...

420, 1083

examination of condition of certain... 430

transfer of site for marine hospital,

Pittsburg, Pa ...

1088

for repairs to buildings, Washington,

D. C ....

422, 1090

for automatic fire-alarm system in build-

ings

422, 1090

Treasury Department,

Page.

appropriation for additional vaults, En-

graving and Printing Bureau

422

for ventilating apparatus

1090

for quarantine stations .

1091

for public buildings, additional, under

omnibus act ..

424

for light-houses, etc ..

430, 1091

statement of lands used by Govern-

ment to be prepared

432

for Life-Saving Service..

433, 1095

for Revenue-Cutter Service..

434, 1096

for Engraving and Printing Bureau . 435 , 1097

for Coast and Geodetic Survey .

436, 1097

for Smithsonian Institution .

439, 1101

for Fish Commission ...

440, 1102

for Interstate Commerce Commission 444, 1107

for Louisiana Purchase Exposition, Gov-

ernment exhibit, etc ...

445 , 1108

construction of Government building. 446

time of opening and closing, changed . 446

coinage of gold dollars ...

446

for paper and stamps, internal revenue . 447,

1108

for punishing violations of internal-rev-

enue law..

447, 1109

for contingent expenses, Independent

Treasury

447, 1109

for transporting, recoining, etc. , coins .. 447, 1109

for mint, Denver, Colo ....

1109

for expenses, securities, and national

currency

448, 1109

for expenses, public buildings .

448, 1110

for suppressing counterfeiting, etc .. 449, 1111

for compensation in lieu of moieties . 449, 1111

for local appraisers' meetings ..

449, 1111

for Alaskan seal and salmon fisheries. 449 , 1111

for enforcing Chinese exclusion ..... 450, 1112

for expenses, alien contract-labor laws .. 450, 1112

for custody of lands, etc for rebate on tobacco .... for quarantine service .

450, 1112 450
450, 1112

for prevention of epidemics

450, 1112

for printing and binding ..

480, 1145

deficiency appropriation for Secretary's

office, division of loans and cur-

rency .

6

for Treasurer's office ..

6, 1033

for distinctive paper, securities

6, 1037

for contingent expenses .. 6, 553, 585, 588 , 1034

for storage building ..

6, 1034

for recoinage, gold coins

7, 1035

for plans for public buildings

7

for Chinese exclusion ...

7, 29, 555 , 1036

for enforcing alien contract-labor laws.. for Tacoma Mill Company

for Merchants' Coal Company

for "Kvarven "
for Alaska Exploration Company for " Rebecca J. Moulton'""

for collecting customs revenue.

7.

29,557, 585, 588, 1036, 1072 , 1076

for internal revenue

8,

29,557, 585, 588, 1040, 1072, 1076

for Engraving and Printing Bureau ..

8,

28, 558, 588, 1040

for Coast and Geodetic Survey .. 9, 28, 558, 588

for public buildings .

9,

28, 558, 585, 588, 1037, 1076

for Life-Saving Service ..

9,

29, 585, 588, 1037 , 1072, 1076

for Light-House Establishment...

9,

559, 1041 , 1072

for mints and assay offices . 10, 28, 559, 1041 , 1076

2236

INDEX .

Treasury Department - Continued .

Page. Treaties (see also Conventions ) ,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for Independent

Treasury .

10, 559, 1035

forgovernment in the Territories . 10 , 560 , 1042

for Fish Commission . for printing and binding ----

10, 559, 585 27 , 1069

for claims certified by accounting officers 28,

585, 1072

for Steamboat- Inspection Service

28

for National Museum

28

extradition with Belgium....

1894

with Bolivia ..

1857

with Chile .

1850

with Denmark .

1906

with Great Britain, supplementary..

1864

with Servia........

1890

with Great Britain, concerning import

duties in Zanzibar

1959

ship canal..

1903

for quarantine service..

29, 1036, 1072 Trent, Lysander D. ,

for repaying importers .

29, 585, 1072 pension increased .

1543

for Revenue-Cutter Service ..29 , 558, 585, 1041 Trent River, N. C. ,

for Continental Fire Insurance Com-

appropriation for improvement of........ 352

pany and others .

29,588, 1076 Tridel, Bridet Agnes (widow),

for canceling documentary stamps ..

118 pension increased .

1615

for transferring records, shelving, etc. 554, 1034 Trieste, Austria,

for stationery..

554, 1034 appropriation for consul at

84, 816

for rent; additional building Thirteenth street ......
for rent, Bureau of Standards .. for Ellis Island immigrant station

Tripp, Mary (widow), 554 pension .. 554 Trinidad, West Indies, 555 appropriation for consul at

1249 84, 816

for transporting silver coin for Paris Exposition for Pan American Exposition ..

555, 1035 555 555

Trinity River, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts for dams, etc.

356, 1127

for Charleston Exposition .

556 Trist, Richard,

for owners, Knoxville Whig ..

556 pension increased .

1369

for Chamberlain, Delany and Scott

556 Trites, William H.,

for credits to engineer officers, Army .

556 pension increased .

1753

for J. W. Jacobs ..

557 Trout, Ann Eliza (widow),

for George Lea Febiger.

557 pension ...

1298

for Chase and Jameson ..

557 Trout, Henry C.,

for William S. Beauchamp

557 pension increased .

1628

for Independent Line of Steamers .

557 Trowbridge Ada (widou ) ,

for Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company . 557 pension increased ..

1424

for suppressing counterfeiting, etc ..

585 Trundy, Carleton A.,

for Smithsonian Institution ..

585 pension increased.

1283

for Zoological Park

585 Trust Act, 1890,

for Register's office .

1034 appropriation for special counsel, etc. , to

for Supervising Architect, draftsmen,

enforce

904

etc

1034 suits under, given precedence in circuit

for rewiring building for electric light-

courts

823

ing

1035 Trust Companies, D. C.,

for roadway.

1035 personal tax on ..........

619

for photograph gallery .

1035 Trustees, D. C.,

for vaults, safes, and locks

1036 estates of, construed

538

for compensation in lieu of moieties .

1036 Trustees in Bankruptcy,

for food to Alaskan natives..

1036 extra allowance to , conducting bankrupt's

for quarantine service ..

1036, 1072

business for a limited period ....... 797

for Blanks and Norton ..

1036 powers extended to recover property from

for J. N. Ornelas and other Mexicans 1036

preferred creditors, prior convey-

for harborcommissioners, San Francisco,

ances, etc

798

Cal

1036 to file copies of decrees in every county

for reimbursing postal revenues, case of

where bankrupt has real estate .

799

C. W. Battle

1036 fees and commissions modified

799

for sealing and separating securities .. 1037 limit of compensation

800

for Propeller Towboat Company..

1037 Trusts, D. C.,

for First National Bank, Navasota, Tex . 1037 | legal titles under, not to pass by general

for special inspectors of foreign steam

devises in wills .

545

vessels .

1072, 1076 Truxton Canyon, Ariz.,

for preventing fraud on customs reve-

nue .

1072

for settlements, insurance companies ... 1078

appropriation for Indian school ....... 273 , 1005

Tryon, Henry W.,

pension increased ..

1460

Freedmen's retained bounty fund covered

Tucker Act,

into the Treasury .

556 appropriation for paying claims allowed

inspection virus, etc. , establishment by

under...

207

officers of ..

729 Tucker, George,

offices, bureaus, etc. , transferred to De-

pension .

1396

partment of Commerce and Labor. 826

Tuckerton Creek, N. J. ,

Public Health and Marine-Hospital Serv-

appropriation for improvement of........ 350

ice established

712

Revenue-Cutter Service reorganized ..

100 Tuerck, Herman,

statistical or scientific work in, may be

pension increased .

1632

transferred to Department of Com-

Tufford, Isaiah,

merce and Labor ....

830 pension increased .

1330

INDEX .

2237

Tulalip Indian Reservation, Wash. , appropriation for Indian school ...

Page. 273

Tule River Agency, Cal.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of

257,993

Tunison, Matilda ( widow) , pension ..
Tunstall, England, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .............

1737
82, 815 86, 818

Tupelo, Miss., deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery.
Tuper, Peter, pension increased ..

10 1616

Turchin, Nadine A. (widow),

pension Turin, Italy,
appropriation for consul at

1330 85, 817

Turkey, 'appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation . for second secretary ..
for interpreter to legation for steam launch, legation ..
for interpreters, etc. , at consulates for marshals, consular courts in . for expenses of prisoners... for prison for American convicts ..

76, 807 77,808
77, 808 77, 809 78, 809 87,819 87,819 87,819 87,819

deficiency appropriation for steam launch,

legation .

1075

Turner, Augusta (widow),

pension

1333

Turner, Elizabeth A. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1491

Turner, Enos,

pension increased .

1651

Turner, George,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

224

Turner, Jerome W. , pension

1759

Turner, Lucy A. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1527

Turner, William B.,
appropriation for services, Senate ....... Turner, William Y. ,
pension increased .

479 1654

Turnure, E. D., appointed as watchman, Capitol police ... 479
Turtle Mountain Band, Chippewa Indians,
N. Dak.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ................ 255 , 991

Tuscaloosa, Ala. ,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1038

purchase of public building site authorized . 1207

Tusinski, Joseph,

pension

1366

Tuttle, Walter C.,

pension increased .

1422

Tutuila, Samoan Islands,

appropriation for naval station ....... 675 , 1188

Twelfth Census (see also Census Office ) , appropriations made available ... made available for expenses of Philip-
pine census deficiency appropriation for H. A. Burrows.
for Burr index ..

1059
1059 570 570

for Charles W. Parker .

570

balance unexpended made available for

Census Office..

456

payment to clerks not reappointed ..

571

repeal of supplementary acts in effect after

termination of temporary organiza-

tion

571

work to be continued by permanent Census

Office ..

51

Twine, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for . deficiency appropriation for .

Page. 113, 1171
1061

Two Rivers, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor . 345

Twycross, Joseph, pension increased .

1673 .

Tyaskin Creek, Md. , appropriation for improvement of .................... 336

Tyler, Rollin,

pension increased ..

1312

Tyler, Tex.,

terms of court .

69

Tynan, Michael,

pension

1292

Typhoid Fever,

deficiency appropriation for report on, in

military camps ..

1044

Typhoid Fever, D. C.,

cases to be at once reported to health

officer

3

Typhus Fever, appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450, 1112

U.

Uintah and Ouray Agency, Utah,

appropriation for Indian agent at .

246, 983

Uintah and White River Ute Indians, Utah,

allotment of irrigable lands ..

263

appropriation for allotments ..

997

inspector to obtain consent for allotment 998

unallotted lands restored to public domain. 263

homestead entries

263

mineral locations; Raven Mining Company 263

distribution of proceeds of sales ...

264

appropriation for payment for allotments

to Uncompahgres, etc.

264

payment of certain claims .

745

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah,

grazing lands to be set apart.

744, 998

opening to take place October 1, 1904

998

allotments to Uncompahgres, confined to

irrigable lands; area ..

744

estimate for survey of, to be submitted

575

Ulrich, D. C.,

payment to

489

Umatilla Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for Indian agent at .............

246

Umatilla Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

private sale of unsold portion of old ....

730

preference to bona fide settlers

730

Umatilla Indians, Oreg. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 257, 993

Umdenstock, William,

payment to

240

Umpqua River, Oreg., preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Uncompahgre Indian Reservation , Utah,

gilsonite, etc. , locations prior to January 1 ,

1891 , confirmed

998

subsequent to January 1 , 1891 , declared

void..

998

sale of reserved lands

998

Uncompahgre Indians,

appropriation for lands on Uintah Reser-

vation allotted to ...

264

allotments on Uintah Reservation confined

to irrigable lands ; area...

744

Underhill, Harlow,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing

pension to...

1060

Undertaking Establishments, D. C. ,

license tax on

628

Underwood, William R. ,

pension increased

1281

2238

INDEX .

Union Agency, Ind. T. , appropriation for Indian agent at

Page. 246,983

Union and Confederate Armies, complete roster of, to be compiled ....... 884

"Union," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on ac-

count of..

221

Union Railroad Station, D. C.,

provisions for

909

location of tracks to and from

909

reservation for passenger trains .

910

division of cost of constructing tracks . 910

location of station

910

cost and character

911

acquiring lands; dedication for street

911

viaduct authorized ; passage for streets

911

tracks to be accommodated ..

911

yards, switches, etc. , outside city limits .. 911

freight facilities for Baltimore and Ohio

Railroad .

912

streets to be vacated after abutting prop-

erty is acquired ....

912

to be elevated, etc.

912

laying out of Massachusetts avenue plaza . 913

sale, etc. , of abandoned lands

914

repeal of provisions for former terminals 914

payment for damages to adjacent property 914

one-half to be refunded by United States 914

consideration of benefits accruing..

914

taxation of property ; exemptions, etc .... 914

preparation and approval of plans; inspec-

tion

915

tracks, stations, etc. , to be completed in

five years

915

requirements of former act, as modified,

continued ....

915

tracks, etc. , to be removed from Mall, etc. 915

surrender of Sixth Street station, rights,

etc

915

appropriation in consideration of relin-

quishment, etc ..

916

prior rights, as modified, continued ..

916

condemnation, etc., to acquire lands .

916

powers, etc., for additional works..

917

traffic contracts with other roads..

917

right of way, etc. , for Magruder Station

line .

917

subways and viaducts for intersecting high-

ways

918

use by other companies; compensation .. 918

substation near Long Bridge ..

918

Union Steamship Company,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

receiver of

211

United Kingdom ( see Great Britain ) .

United Peoria and Miami Indians,

sale of surplus lands permitted

263

United States,

reservation by, as to international arbitra-

tion convention ....

1801

United States Courts,

appropriation for Chief and associate jus-

tices ..

169,905

for marshal, Supreme Court ..

169,905

for clerks to justices

169,905

for circuit judges

169,905

for circuit courts of appeals, clerks ... 169, 905 for messenger, etc. , eighth circuit .. 169,905

for law books, circuit courts of appeal . 169, 906

for district judges ..........

169,905

for judges, Indian Territory for district court, Hawaii ..

169, 905 169,905

for retired judges ..

169,905

for court of private land claims

169, 1144

continued to June 30, 1903

170

continued to June 30, 1904 ..

1144

United States Courts- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for court of appeals, District

of Columbia ..

170, 905

for supreme court, District of Columbia 170, 906

for clerk, northern district, Illinois ... 170,906

for commissioner, Yellowstone Park . 170, 906

for Court of Claims .

170, 906

for salaries, etc. , marshals ; advances. 475, 1141

for salaries, etc. , district attorneys ... 475 , 1141

district attorney for District of Colum-

bia ..

475 , 1141

for salaries regular assistant attorneys 475, 1141

special assistant attorneys

475 , 1141

for fees, clerks ..

475 , 1141

commissioners .

476, 1141

jurors .... witnesses

476, 1141 476, 1141

for rent of rooms .

476, 1141

for bailiffs, etc.
for expenses, judges, etc. for jury commissioners . for miscellaneous expenses

476, 1141 476, 1141 476, 1141 476, 1141

for expenses, Indian Territory for supplies

476, 1142 476, 1142

for fees, southern district, New York . 476, 1142

for support of prisoners

476, 1142

for penitentiary, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans ..

476, 1142

Atlanta, Ga .

478, 1143

McNeils Island, Wash

1144

deficiency appropriation for defending

suits in claims ..

25, 577

for defense, Indian depredation claims . 25, 577

for rent of court rooms .

25, 579, 1066, 1077

for paying judgments

28,584, 1070

for marshals

32, 579, 587, 1065, 1077

for special assistant attorneys .

32, 1075

for fees, clerks ... 32, 587, 590 , 1065, 1075, 1077

jurors .. witnesses

32, 284, 590, 1066, 1075 32, 588, 590, 1075 , 1077

commissioners .

32, 588, 590, 1075

for support of prisoners

32,

579, 588, 590, 1066, 1075

for bailiffs, etc ...

32, 590, 1066

for miscellaneous

32,

284, 588, 590, 1066 , 1075, 1077 for expenses Private Land Claims Court. 578

for additional judge, second circuit

578

for judge, Texas southern district ....

578

for judges, Oklahoma ..

578

for court expenses, Indian Territory . 578, 1064

for district attorneys and assistants

579

for Leavenworth Penitentiary

579

for Fort Smith jail ..

579

for McNeil Island Penitentiary

579

for Court of Claims, lighting..

579

for Mary E. Parker ...

579

for costs, judgment against D. G. Brent . 584

for increased salaries to judges ..

1064

for additional judge, eighth circuit

1064

for additional district judge, New York

southern district ...

1064

Minnesota

1064

for penitentiary, Atlanta

1066

for supplies

1075

Alabama northern district, eastern divi-

sion created

832

Alaska, three divisions established ..

385

Arkansas western district, Harrison divi-

sion formed

72

Colorado, transfer of court from Del Norte

to Montrose ...

833

355050

Georgia northern district, Carroll County

transferred from northwestern divi-

sion

42

southwestern division of southern judicial district created

INDEX .

2239

United States Courts- Continued .

Page.

Indian Territory, boundaries changed,

central and southern districts ..

90

Kentucky eastern district, term at Cat-

lettsburg ...

58

North Carolina eastern district, clerk at

Wilmington ....

106

Oklahoma divided into seven districts ..

185

Texas divided into four districts

64

northern district ..

64

eastern district

new division created

926

southern district ...

65

western district ..

65

Dimmit County transferred to

820

assignment and appointment of officers . 65

disposition of pending causes .

66

return of process .

67

terms of courts

68

officers in southern district .

69

registers in bankruptcy.

69

terms, Aberdeen, S. Dak

197

Abilene, Tex .

69

Abingdon, Va

552, 794

Addison, W. Va

791

Anniston, Ala

832

Atlanta, Ga

548

Austin, Tex .

69, 785

Beaumont, Tex .

69

Birmingham, Ala .. Bluefields, W. Va .

821 , 832 304

Bowling Green, Ky

58

Brownsville , Tex

68

Catlettsburg, Tenn ..

58

Charleston, W. Va

304

Charlottesville, Va.. Covington, Ky .

552, 794 58

Dallas, Tex ..

69

Danville, Va .

552,794

Deadwood, S. Dak

197

Denver, Colo .. El Paso, Tex . Fort Worth, Tex

833 69,785
69

Frankfort, Ky ..

58

Galveston, Tex.

Harrisburg, Pa

549

Harrison , Ark ..

72

Harrisonburg, Va .

552, 794

Helena, Ark.

795

Houston, Tex

68

Huntington, W. Va.

304

Huntsville, Ala ..

820

Jefferson, Tex .

69

Kansas City, Kans .

849

Laredo, Tex...

68

London, Ky ..

58

Louisville, Ky . Lynchburg, Va . Maine circuit court

58 552, 794
199

Massachusetts circuit court

199

Montgomery, Ala .

784, 820

Montrose, Colo ...

.833

New Hampshire circuit court .

199

Ogden, Utah .

841

Owensboro, Ky

58

Paris, Tex...

69

Paducah, Ky.

58

Pennsylvania, eastern district

549

Philadelphia, Pa ..

549

Pierre, S. Dak..

197

Pueblo, Colo ..

833

Rhode Island circuit court

199

Richmond, Ky

58

Roanoke, Va ...

552, 794

Salt Lake City, Utah .

841

San Angelo, Tex ..

69

United States Courts-Continued .

Page.

terms, San Antonio, Tex Scranton, Pa .

69, 785 549

Sherman, Tex .

69

Sioux Falls, S. Dak .

197

Texarkana, Tex

927

Tyler, Tex

69

Waco, Tex .. Wilkesboro, N. C. Williamsport, Pa

69, 785 852 549

additional district judge, Minnesota dis-

trict

795

New York, southern district ..

805

judge, eighth circuit, authorized

791

second circuit, authorized .

106

justices, Oklahoma ...

184

antitrust and interstate-commerce cases

given preference in circuit courts... 823

composition of courts ; divided opinions. 823

appeal direct to Supreme Court .

823

assistance to Spanish Claims Commission,

of

550

bankruptcy dockets and indexes to be

kept ; inspection, etc ..

800

circuit court of appeals, fifth circuit, term

at Atlanta, Ga..

548

Fort Worth, Tex ..

756

Montomery, Ala .

784

eighth circuit, additional terms .

329

clerks' emolument accounts to be restated ;

balance to be paid .

849

fees, Indian Territory, to marshals, wit-

nesses, etc..

395

good-conduct commutation for prisoners

increased

397

in immigration proceedings, concurrent

jurisdiction given circuit and dis-

trict courts ...

1220

jurisdiction for crimes on Indian reserva-

tions, South Dakota

793

in unlawful traffic in arms, etc. , by citizens on uncivilized Pacific islands . 33

jurors' fees increased

396

marshals' bond , Alaska, may be increased.

2

salaries increased ; Supreme Court justices 825

circuit judges ..

825

district judges

825

Court of Claims judges .

825

justices court of appeal, D. C

825

justices supreme court, D. C.

825

United States Insurance Company, Saint Louis,

Mo. ,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement .

1078

United States Penitentiaries,

appropriation for construction , Fort Leav-

enworth, Kans .

473, 1139

for Atlanta, Ga. , construction, etc ..

473

for support, Fort Leavenworth, Kans . 476 , 1142

Atlanta, Ga ..

478, 1143

for McNeils Island , Wash

1144

United States Service Schools,

appropriation for expenses . Universal Postal Congress,

507, 928

appropriation for expenses of delegate to . 1174

Upper Chipola River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of .................... 354

Upper East Bay, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 377

Upper White River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams 1 , 2, and 3 ..

357

right of way granted through lands of lock

No. 3

41

Upshaw, John S.,

pension .......

1549

2240

INDEX .

Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation Bill, change in enrollment directed ..

Page. 1764

Uruguay, Paraguay and, appropriation for minister to

76, 807

Usury, D. C.,

rate of interest allowed ; penalty for excess . 542

payments to be credited to principal debt,

etc

542

Utah,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 899

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

258, 994

for Indian school in southern .. .... 273, 1005

deficiency appropriation for incidentals,

Indian service in

31

for surveyor-general

1057

proclamation establishing Payson Forest Reserve ..
public land receipts in, to be used for irrigation
two additional sections of land granted , for educational purposes
Utah Indian Disturbances, pensions to survivors, etc., of................
Utah Judicial District,
terms of district court, Salt Lake City .... Ogden
Ute Indian Reservation, Colo., homestead laws extended to farmers .. selections excluded . reimbursement to Utes .
improved Government lands reserved ....

1985
388
188
399
841 841
384 384 384 384

Ute Indians, Confederated Bands, appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . for agency employees. deficiency appropriation for
Ute Indians, Uintah and White River, allotment and sale of lands of..

254, 991 255, 991
31
263

Utilla, Honduras, appropriation for consul at

.... 85, 817

Utter, Thomas D.,

pension increased ..

1468

V.

Valdosta, Ga. ,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site authorized . 1208

terms of court .

550

Vale, John,

pension increased ..

1288

Valencia, Spain, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Valentine, David,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Valentine, Edson,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Valentine, Nebr.,

sale of part of Fort Niobrara Reservation

to, authorized

283

Vallet, Jedediah S.,

pension increased ..

1256

Valparaiso, Chile, appropriation for consul at .

82, 814

Van Brocklin, Samantha B. (widow) ,

pension ..

1425

Van Camp, Aaron, and Virginias P.,

claims referred to Court of Claims

1605

payment to administrators of judgment

found ..

1606

Van de Mark, George S.,

payment to

491

Van Deusen, George H.,

Page.

pension increased ..

1700

Van Eaton, Hannah A. (widow),

pension increased .

1434

Van Hise, C. R.,

report on iron ore deposits Lake Superior

region by, ordered printed .

1763

Van Houten, Clayton P.,

pension increased..

1491

Van Matre, James K. ,

pension increased .

1516

Van Nordstrand, Lott,

pension increased .

1735

Van Riper, William H.,

pension increased .

1448

Van Sickell, Caleb C.,

pension increased ..

1698

Van Tassell, Oscar,

pension increased .

1523

Van Vliet, Alfred H.,

pension increased .

1335

Van Wie, Daniel,

pension increased .

1720

Van Wormer, Mary A. (widow ) ,

pension increased ..

1309

Van Wyck, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

226

Van Wye, Laura A. (daughter),

pension .

1314

Van Zant, James,

pension increased .

1448

Vancouver Barracks and Military Reservation,

Wash. ,

grant of right of way through

1028

Vancouver Barracks, Wash.,

appropriation for hospital building .

939

Vancouver, British Columbia, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

84, 816 86, 818

Vancouver, Wash. ,

bridge authorized across Columbia River

at

277

Vandemark, Sarah, formerly Ciples (mother),

pension increased

1375

Vanmatre, A. R. ,

may bridge Saint Francis River at Saint

Francis, Ark .

1031

Vanuxem and Clark,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

225

Vasse, Ambrose,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

218, 223, 225

Vaughan, Jonathan D.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

209

Vaults, Safes, and Locks, Public Buildings,

appropriation for, and repairs ...

422, 1091

for electrical protection in certain build-

ings

1091

deficiency appropriation for

1036

Vegetable Pathology,

appropriation for investigations............. 291 , 1152

Vehicles for Hire, D. C. , license tax on owners ; badges ....
Venezuela, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation . leave of minister extended

624
76, 807 77,808
1033

Venice, Italy, appropriation for consul at

85,817

"Venus," Ship,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of.............

224

INDEX .

2241

Vera Cruz, Mexico, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

Page. 82, 814 86, 818

Vermillion, Marcus L. ,

pension increased .

1730

Vermillion, Ohio,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

381

Vermilyea, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

218

Vermont,

deficiency appropriation for refunding

expenses raising volunteers

586

Very, James,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ..........

233

Vessels, Foreign Steam,

deficiency appropriation for special in-

spectors ..

1072, 1076

Vest, Hon. George G., Senator from Missouri,

made member of Lincoln Memorial Com-

mission

486

Vestries, etc. , D. C., acts as to powers not repealed by Code.... 546

Veterinarians, Army,

appropriation for

511 , 933

Viaduct, Washington, D. C.,

provisions for, from new union railroad

station ..

911

Vice-President of the United States,

appropriation for secretary, etc ........ 121 , 854

Vickers, Christopher (son) ,

pension .

1462

Vickers, David,

pension increased .

1520

Vickers, Jane (daughter), pension ..
Vickers, Samuel J. (son) , pension..

1462 1462

Vicksburg National Military Park, appropriation for establishing
Victor, Frances Fuller (widow), pension increased ..

446, 1131 1300

Victoria, British Columbia, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire .............

82, 815 86, 818

Vidalia, La.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River at ...

367

Vienna, Austria,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...........

86, 818

Vinal, Lemuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ..

233

Vinal, William, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of ......

233

Vinalhaven, Me. ,

appropriation for improvement of Carvers

Harbor

331

Vincennes, Ind. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

318

appropriation for

428, 1090

Vincent, Elizabeth C. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1390

Vineyard Sound, Mass. ,

examination for harbor of refuge directed . 333
Virginia, settlement of mutual claims, war of 1812 .. 235

Virginia Western Judicial District,

terms of court, Danville

794

Lynchburg .

794

Abingdon .

794

VOL XXXII , PT 2--64

Virginia Western Judicial District- Continued . Page.

terms of court, Harrisonburg .

794

Charlottesville

794

Roanoke ..

552, 794

Viruses, etc.,

regulation of sale, in District of Columbia,

and interstate traffic .....

728

Vital Statistics,

annual collection of, by Census Office

52

collection and publication by Public

Health, etc., Service ..

714

cooperation of States requested to secure

uniformity in registration

1231

Vladivostok, Siberia,

appropriation for consul at

82, 815

for interpreter...

86, 818

Vogan, William (father), pension ...
Voils, Anthony, payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

1722 209

Volkmar, Susan A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1404

Volunteer Soldiers' Home (see also National Home for Volunteer Soldiers ) ,

appropriation for expenses

468, 1132

Volunteers,

appropriation for back pay, bounty, etc. 472, 1137

deficiency appropriation for pay of..... 29, 589

for pay, two and three year..

29

for collecting, etc

30, 589

for California and Nevada .

30, 1073

for pay, etc. , Oregon and Washington .. 30, 589, 1073, 1076

for refund to States, expenses raising.. 30,

586, 1078

claims of States for raising, to be reopened . 30

examinations for commissions in, other

than organized militia

779

eligibility of applicants; certificate of

board ..

779

register of persons eligible for commissions
further instruction in military schools.. age limitations ; distribution .... Volunteers, United States, credit to Army enlisted men for service as
officers of . Volusia Bar, Fla. ,
appropriation for improvement of.............. Von Hemert, Anna Eliza Isabella,
refund of erroneous assessment, District of Columbia

779 779 780
934 353
1503

Von Steinwehr, Mary Florence (widow), pension ...
Vore, Austin A. , pension ...
Vore, Harrison C., pension increased ..

1459 1650 1358

Vowells, F. M.,

pay and allowances to

1581

Vulcan Steel Company, claim referred to Court of Claims; payment 764

W.

Wabash River, Ind. and Ill.,

appropriation for improvement ; use of bal-

ance ...

363

Waccamaw River, N. C. and S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of

352

Waccamaw River, S. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

bridge authorized across, at Conway

387

2242

INDEX .

Wacksmuth, John G. ,

Page.

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

222

Waco, Tex.,

appropriation for rent, public building ... 1090

deficiency appropriation for rent, public

buildings

1037

limit of cost increased, public building

315

appropriation for

426, 1090

terms of court .

69, 785

Wade, Elie,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 211

Wade, Nelson W.,

pension ..

1464

Wagner, Ernest,

pension increased ...

1363

Wagner, Jennie M. (widow),

pension increased..

1434

Wagon- Making Establishments, D. C.,

license tax on

628

Wagon- Road Grants,

provisions for relief of settlers on railroad

lands, etc. , extended to ----

733

Wagoner, Hon. George C. R.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses

1067

Wagons, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for mail by....
Wainwright, Charles S., pension increased ..

transportation 115 , 1172
1642

Wakefield, Va.,

appropriation for watchman, care of mon-

ument and dock ..

152, 886

Walbert, Jonathan,

pension increased .

1514

Walck, Samuel S.,

pension increased .

1525

Walcott, Georgie Josephine ( widow),

pension increased .

1327

Waldo, Harold P.,

pension

1685

Walker, Benjamin W.,

pension increased .

1642

Walker, Charles M.,

pension ..

1703

Walker, Eliza A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1562

Walker, Fletcher J.,

pension increased .

1560

Walker, Hiram C. ,

granted honorable discharge ..

1570

Walker, James A. ,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses .

582

Walker, James H.,

pension increased .

1388

Walker, John H., deficiency appropriation for services .. 580 , 1067

Walker, Mary V. (widow),

pension increased ....

1331

Walker, R. E.,

deficiency appropriation for

583

Walker River Indian Reservation, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

on ..

258,993

allotment of irrigable land to Indians on . 260, 997

assistance to Indians in agriculture ...

260

lands relinquished to be opento settlement . 261

estimate for survey of, to be submitted ... 575

grazing lands to be set apart for Indians on. 744

Walker, Susan (widow) ,

pension.

1482

Wall, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased__

1485

Walla Walla Indians, Oreg.,

Page.

appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... Wallace, James A. ,
appropriation for Wallace, James E. ,
pension increased . Wallace, John,
pension .. Wallace, Kephart,
pension increased . Wallace, Lymus,
pension increased . Wallace, William J.,
pension increased .

257 , 993 269 1707 1719 1280 1748 1287

Wallaceburg, Ontario, appropriation for consul at
Waln, Jesse,

85,817

payment of French spoliation claim to ad- 999 ministrator of .

Walnut Bend, Ark. ,

appropriation for preventing Mississippi and Saint Francis rivers cutting

through at

357

Walsh, Edward,

pension increased .

1630

Walsh, T. and A. ,

payment to..

240

Walton, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

211

Walton, Lewis,

pension .

1624

Waltrip, Sarah A. ( widow) ,

pension .

1602

Wappinger Creek, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of ..............

349

Wappoo Cut, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of ............

352

War College, Army,

appropriation for continuance...........

512

for buildings, from emergency fund

balance .

512

for expenses..

927

War Department (see also Army ),

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc....

149, 883

for extra force, Spanish-war business .. 149 , 883

roster of Union and Confederatearmies

to be compiled

884

for clerks, etc. , Adjutant-General's

Office ..

149, 884

Record and Pension Office

149, 884

Inspector-General's Office..

150, 884

Judge-Advocate-General's Office ... 150, 884

Signal Office.......

150, 884

Quartermaster- General's Office ---- 150, 884

Commissary-General's Office

150, 884

Surgeon-General's Office

150, 885

Paymaster-General's Office .

150, 885

Office of Chief of Ordnance .

150,885

semiannual returns ...

885

Office of Chief of Engineers for contingent expenses
for stationery for rent .

150,885 151 , 885 151, 885 151 , 885

for public buildings and grounds, clerks,

gardeners, watchmen, etc ...

151,886

for State, War, and Navy Department

building, clerks, engineers, watch-

men, etc ....

152, 886

for civil expenses under

458, 1121

for armories and arsenals .

458,1121

for buildings and grounds, Washington . 458, 1122

for Engineer Department

462, 1124

INDEX .

2243

War Department- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for national cemeteries . 463, 1128

for burial of indigent soldiers ..

464, 1128

for Antietam battlefield ....

464 , 1128

for bringing home remains of officers

and soldiers ...

464, 1128

for relief of distress in Philippines

1129

for care, etc., records of military govern-

ment in Cuba

1129

for military posts .

464, 1129

for national parks for maps ...

464, 1130 466, 1131

for surveys, Northern and Northwestern

lakes

467, 1131

for transporting maps, etc.

467, 1131

for artificial limbs .

467, 1131

for appliances for disabled soldiers .. 467 , 1131

for Providence Hospital, Washington 467 , 1132

for Garfield Hospital, Washington .. 467 , 1132

for California Dbris Commission ... 467, 1132

for New York Harbor ..

467, 1132

for building, Fort Sill, Okla. , for Apache

prisoners ..

467

for National Home for Volunteer Sol-

diers .....

468, 1132

for aid to State and Territorial Homes 472, 1137

for back pay; bounty; commutation of

rations ..

472, 1137

for back pay, etc. , war with Spain and

in Philippines. for printing and binding

473 , 1138 480, 1145

for Army

507, 927

for fortifications .

305, 1024

for Military Academy.

409, 1011

for Fourth of July claims ..

629

deficiency appropriation for advertising .

12

for statue of Rochambeau .

12

for care, etc. , Executive Mansion

12

for military post, Philippines ..

12

for Yellowstone Park .

12

for Army

13 ,

29,563, 585 , 589 , 1045, 1072 , 1076, 1077

for Military Academy.

13, 564

for Volunteer Soldiers' Home

13 ,

29, 564, 586, 589, 1048 , 1073

for national defense ...

29,585

for pay, two and three year volunteers . 29

for pay, volunteers

29, 589

for bounty

29

for artificial limbs

29, 586, 589

for improving Columbia River, Wash

29

for California Dbris Commission .

29

for horses, etc for gunboats, Western rivers .. for collecting, etc. , volunteers for Rogue River Indian war

30, 586 30, 589 30, 589
30

for California and Nevada volunteers . 30 , 1073

for Oregon and Washington volunteers . 30,

586, 589, 1073 , 1076

for refund to States for volunteers ...

30,

586, 1078

for printing and binding for contingent expenses .

94, 1069 563

for statements of expenditures Cuba and

Philippines ...

563

for transporting destitute citizens from

Alaska ..

563, 1046

for Ohio River, improvement .

563

for Governors Island .

564

for E. A. McIlhenny .

565

for J. B. Bellinger .

565

for William K. Trabue .

586

for Mexican War volunteers .

589

for Fourth of July claims

589

for public buildings and grounds .......... 758 , 1046

War Department-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for report on typhoid fever in military camps
for improving Chippewa River, Wis for Winfield T. Durbin .. for Capt. O. B. Mitcham for Alaska Commercial Company, etc ..
for James E. McDonald . for Col. John Simpson . for Capt. Marion P. Maus for Lieut. Col. J. W. Pullman for Chickamauga and Chattanooga Park. for claims of Confederate soldiers .. for State and Territorial Homes

1044 1046 1046 1047
1047, 1048 1047 1047 1047 1047 1048 1048 1049

Chief of Engineers to control public build-

ings and grounds, D. C ..

152

unlawful occupiers of public lands, District of Columbia, to be ejected ....
claims of owners of " Mogul " for damage to be examined ..
division of Insular Affairs to be Bureau of
Insular Affairs ; chief .. funds from Philippine government for
military stores, to continue available .

152 1048 712
563

statistical or scientific work in, may be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor

830

War of 1812,

settlement of claims of Virginia, South Carolina, and Baltimore, Md ......
War on Land, international convention governing usages of
regulations . War Revenue Repeal,
tax on beer, etc. , restored to $i a barrel .. stamps may be canceled by perforations
special taxes repealed........ reduction of tax on snuff .
tobacco, manufactured ..
tax on cigars and cigarettes modified .. packages authorized for smoking tobacco
and snuff drawback on tobacco and snuff on hand
July 1 , 1902 . tax on tobacco dealers and manufacturers
repealed

235
1803 1811
96 96 96 96 96 97
97
97
97

old stamps may have new rate imprinted . 97

exchange of unaffixed

97

discount of tobacco stamps repealed..........

97

repeal of documentary and proprietary

stamp taxes ..

97

of sale of stamps by other than revenue

officers

97

penalties, stamp taxes

97

legacy taxes ..

97

collection of unpaid legacy taxes .

97

legal proceedings

98

penalty for refusal, etc. , of executors ,

etc

99

" mixed flour" defined

99

tea duty repealed from January 1 , 1903

99

act to take effect July 1 , 1902 ....

99

War with Spain,

provisions for settling accounts of Army

officers arising from..

955

Ward, Joshua,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Ward, Louise (widow), pension increased .
Ward, William L., payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

1350 217

68686868*6%

2244

INDEX .

Wardwell, David K. , pension increased .

Page. 1716

Warehouses, Customs,

goods withdrawn from, to pay duty at rate

then imposed

753

Warehouses for Indian Supplies, appropriation for, Omaha, Nebr . for Saint Louis, Mo .. disbursements for clerks allowed

263, 999 263,999
263

Warner, William,

pension increased ..

1480

Warr, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

executor of ..

216

Warrant Officers, Navy, annual appointment of ensigns from .....
Warren, Horatio N. , pension increased.

1197 1334

Warren, Ida M. (widow),

pension .

1378

Warren, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1090

Warren, Sarah J. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1673

Warren, Winslow,

payment to..

240

Warrick, Charles A. ,

pension ..

1731

Warrior River, Ala. ,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts, etc

354, 1126

Warrior Southern Railway Company,

granted right of way, Lock No. 4, Black

Warrior River..

189

Warroad, Minn., appropriation for improvement of harbor. 346
Warroad River, Minn., appropriation for improvement of........ 346
Warsaw, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of Missis-

sippi River, Quincy to ..

365

Warwick River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of ...................... 336

Warters, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

213

Wary," Schooner,

deficiency appropriation for claims, seizure

of..

552

Washburn, Charles C. ,

pension increased .

1445

Washburn, John,

pension increased ..

1447

Washburn, Kazier (widow),

pension ..

1291

Washington,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

163, 899

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in ..

253, 994

deficiency appropriation for expenses, In-

dian service in ...

22

for pay, etc. , volunteers

30,

586, 589 , 1073, 1076

for reimbursing, land surveys

572

proclamation changing boundaries, Olympic Forest Reserve ..
restoring part of Washington Forest Reserve, to public domain

1981 1969

public land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation .

388

selections in lieu of school lands confirmed . 756

Washington and Gettysburg Railway Company,

D. C. ,

time for constructing line extended

731

Washington and Oregon Railway Company, Page.

may bridge Columbia River, Vancouver,

Wash ....

277

Washington Aqueduct, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance .

602, 967

for filtration plant ; contracts .

602, 967

Washington, Arlington and Falls Church Rail-

way Company, may acquire forfeited rights for street rail-

way across Aqueduct Bridge .....

782

Washington Asylum, D. C. , appropriation for salaries .

610, 976

for expenses, repairs, etc.

611, 976

for quarantine buildings on grounds of. 974

deficiency appropriation for repairs .

562

for expenses ..

1043

Washington County, Pa. ,

may bridge Monongahela River, Webster,

Pa ...

850

Washington, D. C. ( see also District of Colum-

bia ) ,

appropriation for public works, navy-yard . 673, 1186

for additional land , navy-yard ..........

1186

for Bureau of Standards laboratory..

1090

limit of cost increased for building .. 315

deficiency appropriation for Engraving and Printing Bureau; land and building . 1039

municipal building site to be acquired ;

condemnation, etc ..

321

appropriation for

429

limit of cost increased .

1206

title transferred to District; contracts for

building

1206

Washington Gaslight Company,

hours of laboratory changed .

63

deficiency appropriation for lighting Capi-

tol and grounds ..

1055

Washington Forest Reserve,

proclamation restoring part of, to public

domain .

1969

Washington Marine Insurance Company, New

York,

deficiency appropriation for Treasury set-

tlement

1079, 1079

Washington Monument, appropriation for care and maintenance .. 461 , 1124

for expenses..

461 , 1124

Washington Monument Association, Alexandria,

Va . ,

medals to be made at mint for ......

715

Washington, Pa. ,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1090

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1205

Washington Sound, etc. , Wash. ,

appropriation for lighting .

433, 1094

Water Department, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , of

aqueduct.

602, 967

for city reservoir, etc ..

602, 967

for filtration plant ..

602, 967

for extending high-service system ..

615

for salaries .

615, 980

for general expenses

615 , 980

for continuing extension of high-service

system

615, 981

deficiency appropriation for filtration plant 562

for increasing water supply, expenses

563 .

Water Hyacinth,

appropriation for removal of, from South-

ern navigable waters ..

354

Water Privileges,

regulations for, Philippines ....

697

INDEX .

2245

Water Rights, Philippines, protection of vested ..

Page. 704

Water Supply,

appropriation for investigations to deter-

mine; reports .....

455, 1118

Waterbury, Conn. ,

construction of public building authorized

at....

317

appropriation for.

428, 1090

Wateree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 352

preliminary examination of, to be made;

present work suspended...

382

Waterloo, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at; site ...

318

appropriation for

428, 1090

Waterman, Rufus,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of..

221

Watertown Arsenal, Mass. ,

appropriation for testing machine ..... 458 , 1122

for barracks, enlisted men ..

458

for shop and warehouse .

309

for gun-carriage plant

309

Watertown, N. Y. ,

examination of public building, directed ;

report

326

Watervliet Arsenal, West Troy, N. Y. ,

appropriation for machines, gun shop ... 309

for heating apparatus

1122

Watkins, Richard G.,

pension increased .

1476

Watts, James H.,

pension increased .

1545

Watts, John (son) ,

pension .

1372

Watts, Mary,

payment to

488

Watts, Robert,

pension ..

1474

Waukegan, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ....

343, 1126

Wausau, Wis.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1090

limit of cost increased , public building ... 1206

"Waxsaw," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation, referred to

Court of Claims

244

Wear, Laura B. ( widow) ,

pension ....

1245

Wearing Apparel, D. C. ,

exempt from personal tax ...

620

Weather Bureau,

appropriation for salaries .....

286, 1148

for fuel, lights, and repairs .

287, 1148

for contingent expenses ..

287, 1148

for salaries of officials outside of Wash-

ington .... leaves of absence permitted

287, 1149 287

for all other expenses .

287, 1149

wireless telegraphy experiments .

288

for maintenance of stations, West Indies,

etc

288, 1149

for meteorological station, Hawaiian

Islands

288 , 1149

forgeneral expenses meteorology, etc. 288, 1149

for observatories; equipment

288, 1149

for cables, etc. , Farallone Islands, Cal .. 288

Womans or Sand Key, Fla ....

288

wireless communication ..

288

for cable, Block Island to Narragansett

Pier, R. I.

1149

Weather Bureau- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for storm-warning station ,

South Manitou Island , Mich ...... 282

for printing and binding..

480, 1146

deficiency appropriation for expenses

32,

590, 1075

Weaver, Henry,

pension increased .

1521

Weaver, Joshua,

pension increased .

1461

Webb, Charles H.,

pension increased .

1529

Webb, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ..

215

Weber, Louis, payment to

1277

Webster, Adela S. ( widow) ,

pension ..

1298

Webster City, Iowa,

deficiency appropriation for public building site..
purchase of public building site authorized . Webster, Pa.,
bridge authorized across Monongahela River at .

1039 1208
850

Wedderburn, A. J. , payment to....
Weeks, Lorenzo, pension increased .

491 1410

Weeminuchi Ute Indians, Colo.,

negotiations with, for Mesa Verde ......

998

Weepecket Rock, Mass. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Weidel, Jacob,

pension increased .

1400

Weights and Measures, International Bureau of,

appropriation for contribution ....

79, 811

Weights and Measures, International Committee, appropriation for expenses of member.... 874

Weil and La Abra Claims,

deficiency appropriation for repayment to

Mexico , in...

5

Weimar, Friedrich,

pension increased .

1413

Weimar, Germany, appropriation for consul at

84, 816

Weirauch, Mina (widow) ,

pension ..

1550

Weisenburger, Laura G. ( widow) ,

pension

1313

Welch, Henry F. , and others,

reimbursement to, as surety of D. A. J.

Suliivan

1610

Welch, James,

pension increased ...

1432

Welch, Jane C. (widow),

pension increased ..

1639

Welch, Samuel, granted honorable discharge ...
Welles, Arnold, payment of French spoliation administrator of

claim

1582
to 231 , 232

Welles, Arnold, jr.,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

230, 231

Welles, John, payment of French spoliation claim to executor of ................ ... 220, 228 , 232, 232

Welles, Samuel,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of .

232

Wellman, Reuben,

pension increased ..

1354

2246

INDEX .

Wellman, Timothy,

Page .

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

227

Wells, Eudora (daughter) ,
pension Wells, John,
payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of

1737 232

Wells, Levi,

military record corrected .......

1489

Wells, Martha L.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .

210

Wells, Milton D., pension increased .
Wells, Orrin J., pension increased ..
Wenatchi Indians,
appropriation for removing to Reservation

Colville

1740 1495
260

Wende, Eliza (widow),

pension increased .

1706

Wendehuth, William,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1042

Wentworth, Tilley,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

231

Wertz, George W.,

pension increased .

1404

West, Callie (widow), pension increased ..

1726

West Chester, Pa.,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1090

West, Eliza J. (widow),

pension

1436

West Elizabeth and Dravosburg Bridge Com-

pany,

may bridge Monongahela River ..............

497

West Elizabeth, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Monongahela River, between Dravosburg and ... 497

West, Henrietta V. (widow),

pension

1690

West Indies,

appropriation for weather stations in .. 288, 1149

West Indies Railroad and Steamship Company,

may bridge Manatee River, Fla .

190

West, James T.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

heirs of ..

211

West, Margaret Ann,

pension .

1602

West Point, N. Y. (see Military Academy) .

West Virginia,

appropriation for repaying amount paid

certain officers ...

236

West Virginia Southern Judicial District,

terms of court, Huntington .

304

Bluefield .

304

Charleston

304

Addison

791

West, Waity (widow) ,

pension increased..

1384

Westbrook, Joseph,

pension increased .

1586

Westcott, George W., payment of Court of Claims judgment to.. 213

Western Bridge Company,

may bridge Ohio River, Allegheny, Pa... 178

Western Miami Indians,

sale of surplus lands permitted...

263

distribution of proceeds per capita

263

payment to officer, etc

263

Westminster, Md . , deficiency appropriation for public building site
purchase of public building site authorized .
Westmoreland County, Pa.,
may bridge Monongahela River, Webster, Pa...

Page. 1039 1208
850

Weston, George W. ,

payment to

240

Weyeneth, Rudolph B. ,

pension increased ..

1637

Weymouth Fore River, Mass. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 379

Weymouth River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of ........ 348

Whalen, John,

pension increased .

1425

Whedbee, T. B. ,

payment to

490

Wheeler, Alfred M. ,

pension increased ..

1389

Wheeler, E. S. , and Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims ; pay-

ment

764

Wheeler, Henry G. ,

pension increased .

1583

Wheeler, John H.,

pension increased .

1741

Wheeler, John M.,

pension increased .

1466

Wheeler, Myron E. , deficiency appropriation for services ........... 577

Wheeler, William,

pension increased ..

1347

Wheeler, William H. ,

pension increased ..

1423

Wheeling, W. Va.,

construction of new public building au-

thorized at ; site .

323

appropriation for

429, 1090

sale of present building authorized; mini-

mum price ..

323

Whetsell, William L.,

pension .

1601

Whidden, John H. ,

pension .

1593

Whitaker, Eli,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

212

Whitbeck, Horatio N. ,

pension increased .

1500

Whitcher, Selden E. ,

pension increased..

1290

Whitcomb, Moses,

pension increased ..

1623

Whitcomb, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased .

1562

White, Benjamin,

pension increased.

1547

White, Dorthy S. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1352

White Earth Agency, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246 , 983

While Earth Indian Reservation, Minn.,

appropriation for agent's residence .....

247

White, Enoch A. ,

pension increased...........

1266

White, George,

pension increased ..

1732

White, George P., released from liability for stolen funds ... 1607

White, George W.,

pension increased..

1486

INDEX .

2247

White, Harriet,

Page.

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of devisee of

209

White House (see Executive Mansion ) .

White, Isaac,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of .

233

White, James M. ,

pension increased ..

1669

White, John C.,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 553

White, John E.,

pension increased ..

1334

White Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 344

White, Louisa ( daughter),

pension ..

1438

White River, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of

357

bridge authorized across

40, 185

Newport, Ark .

396

White River Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation changing boundaries and

name .

2008

White River Plateau Timber Land Reserve,

Colo. ,

name changed to White River Forest

Reserve ..

2008

White River Railway Company,

granted right of way, Lock No. 3, Upper White River, Ark
may bridge White River, Ark White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.,
appropriation for fish hatchery White, Thomas J.,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to administrator of ..

41 185 1107
208

White, William H. ,

pension increased

1442

White, Woodford,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 217

Whitehouse, Etta A. (widow ) ,

pension

1567

Whiting, W. H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

569

Whitlege, John S.,

pension

1652

Whitlock, William,

pension increased

1741

Whitman, John A. ,

pension increased

1711

Whitney, Cornelia F. (widow),

pension increased

1516

Whitney, Hattie M. (widow) ,

pension increased

1444

Whittier, Albert S.,

pension increased

1317

Whittle, Conroy,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of ..

232

Whitty, Elizabeth ( widow) ,

pension increased

1467

Whitworth, Herbert,

pension increased

1676

Whitworth, Isaac G., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 212

Whyte, Thomas J.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ....

208

Wichita, etc., Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ..... 255 , 991

for paying attorneys ; reimbursement

267

deficiency appropriation for judgment of

Court of Claims

583

payment to legal representatives of

Luther H. Pike

584

Wichita, etc., Indians -Continued. additional allowance for public works Oklahoma on lands ceded by ...... lands in Oklahoma, ceded by, open to town-site commutations ...

Page. 506 63

proclamation opening to entry lands in

Oklahoma ceded by

1975

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla.,

proclamation establishing

1973

Wickford, R. I.,

preliminary examination to be made of

Mill Cove .

382

Wickham, Charles H.,

pension increased

1281

Wicomoco River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of ................... 336

Widgery, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

220

Widows,

pensions to remarried, of other than offi-

cers or enlisted men

920

who failed to draw, by reason of remar-

riage

921

Widows Island, Me. ,

conveyed to Maine for public purposes ; reversion, etc
Wight, Collins W., pension increased .

952 1752

Wilbur, Mrs. A. M. ,

payment to

490

Wilcox County, Ala.,

bridge authorized across Alabama River

in .

772

Wilcox, John B. ,

pension increased .

1252

Wilcox, Lewis E.,

pension increased .

1592

Wilcox, William F. ,

pension increased ..

1725

Wild, Daniel,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Wild, Frances E. (widow) ,

pension ..

1716

Wilder, Elizabeth A. (widow) ,

pension

1627

Wiley, Aquila,

pension increased ..

1311

Wilkesbarre, Pa.,
appropriation for public building .................. Wilkesboro, N. C.,
terms of court at.

1090 852

Wilkins, Elvira L. (widow),

pension increased .

1267

Wilkins, Poe and Company,

payment to

490

Wilkinson, Thomas,

pension increased .

1509

Willamette River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Portland ..

369

for improvement of, above Portland ...... 369

for lighting

433, 1094

preliminary examination of, to be made,

Portland to Oregon City

382

Albany

382

examination of effect of canal and locks at

Falls ....

381

of title, etc. , of Portland General Elec-

tric Company to waters of..

381

Willapa River and Harbor, Wash. ,

use of unexpended balance .

370

Willard, James,

pension increased ..

1250

Willett, James P.,

payment to executor of ..

1696

2248

INDEX .

Willetts Point, N. Y. ( see also Fort Totten), appropriation for submarine defense school
Willey, Frederick W., pension increased ..
"William and Joseph," Schooner, payment of French spoliation claim on account of.

Page. 507 1568
220

" William and Mary," Schooner,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of..

219

"William," Brig,

payment of French spoliation claim on

account of...

227

Williams, Abram,

military record corrected ......

1435

Williams, Benjamin,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administrator of...

223, 225

Williams, Ezekiel,

payment of French spoliation claim to

administratrix of

231

Williams, Franklin,

pension increased ..

1740

Williams, Hamline B. ,

pension increased .

1572

Williams, Henry E.,

pension increased.

1402

Williams, James,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .............

217

Williams, James F.,

payment to

489

Williams, John C.,

pension increased ..

1737

Williams, John R. ,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of .....

208

Williams, Lawson,

pension increased ..

1545

Williams, Mary (widow) , pension increased .

1622

Williams, Nancy M. (widow),

pension

1475

Williams, Parker,

deficiency appropriation for .

1067

Williams, Remembrance J.,

pension increased .

1547

Williams, Russel A. ,

pension increased .

1362

Williamson, John,

pension ..

1502

Williamsport, Pa., may use public building for court, etc.... 1230

terms of court .

549

Willing and Francis, payment of French spoliation claim to administrator of surviving partner . 222

Willingham and Company,

payment to

486

Willingham, C. B.,

payment to

487

Willis, Adeline M., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

Willis, John,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administrator of ......

212

Willock, Thomas,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

232

Willow Industry,

appropriation for introducing, among In-

dians ..

248

Wills, D. C. (see also Probate Court, D. C. ) ,

creation of estates by

531

penalty for failure to deliver, after death

of maker.

535

Wills, D. C. - Continued.

Page.

prohibition of perpetuities repealed ...... 545

after acquired real estate provisions to re-

late back to January 17, 1887 ..

545

general devises of all property not to in-

clude trusts

545

opening in presence of relatives permitted before filing in probate court ...... 545
Wilmington, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

dredge; reappropriation ...

346

Wilmington, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 335

Wilmington, N. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for repairs to

wharf..

1037

clerk of courts authorized at .

106

immediate transportation facilities extend-

ed to

760

purchase of land for Revenue-Cutter Serv-

ice, authorized ...

497

Wilson, Benjamin F. ,

pension .

1734

Wilson, C. E.,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses

582

Wilson, Charles S. ,

pension increased ..

1343

Wilson, Evaline (widow),

pension increased ..

1343

Wilson, George T.,

deficiency appropriation for, stock stolen

by Indians ..

1074

Wilson, Jackson L. ,

pension increased .

1481

Wilson, James J.,

pension increased .

1557

Wilson, James R.,

pension increased .

1375

Wilson, Joseph A. ,

pension increased .

1705

Wilson, Maria J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1793

Wilson, Mariah,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 208

Wilson, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 334

Wilson, Thomas B. ,

pension increased .

1618

Wilson, Thomas W.,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of

212

Wilson, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrix of..

219, 230

Wilson, William M. (father),

pension ..

1730

Winans, Edwin R. , deficiency appropriation for services ...... 26
Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company, payment of Court of Claims judgment to .. 217

Wind Cave National Park, S. Dak. , appropriation for protection, etc. established; boundaries . valid rights not affected . regulations, etc. leases of cavern, etc .. use of funds for care, etc.. lands for tracts relinquished . penalty for unlawful intrusion, injuries, etc

1119 765 765 765 765 765 766
766

Windes, Henry H., pension
Windsor, Nova Scotia, appropriation for consul at

1724 85,817

INDEX .

2249

Windsor, Ontario, appropriation for consul at ..

Page. 85,817

Winfrey, Thomas J. ,

pension increased.

1731

Wingard, H. W. ,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

1052

Wingfield, Charles B. ,

pension increased .

1346

Winks, Nathaniel A. ,

pension increased ..

1675

Winnebago Indians,

appropriation for interest; expenditure . 255 , 991

Winnipeg, Manitoba, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Winslow, Eben C.,

pension increased .

1389

Winslow, Levi H.,

pension increased ..

1318

Winslow, Luther,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

227

Winter, Samuel,

payment to..

489

Winterbottom, Mary E. (widow) , pension

1724

Winyah Bay, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; use of

dredges ....

337

for improvement of harbor ..

462, 1124

Wireless Telegraphy,

appropriation for experiments, Weather

Bureau

288

Wisconsin,

deficiency appropriation for raising volun-

teers ..

1078

Wisdom, D. M.,

released from liability on bond of R. M. Thompson
Withlacoochee River, Fla.,
appropriation for improvement of..... Witnesses,
power of Spanish Claims Commission to
secure attendance, etc ..... powers over, vested in Commissioner of
Corporations ... to compel attendance, etc. , of, in inter-
state-commerce violations

1603 354
550 828 848

Witness, D. C. ,

credibility of, when testimony differs from

prior statements ..

540

Witnesses, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees ..

476, 1141

deficiency appropriation for fees

32 ,

588, 590, 1075 , 1077

fees allowed, Indian Territory ..

395

Wolcott, Winthrop W.,

pension increased .

1635

Wolf Lake, Ind. ,

provision for improvement of, repealed ... 374

WWroolpfrRiivaetr,iWoins. ,for improvement of....

363

Wolfe, John J.,

pension increased ....

1376

Wolfley, Louis, deficiency appropriation for services ..... 572

Womans Key, Fla. ,

appropriation for cable to Key West ....

288

Women's Christian Association, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance ..

613, 979

Women's Clinic, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance ..
Wood, William H. , pension increased .

612,978 1398

Wood, Ziba S.,

pension increased ..

1267

Woodall, Dicey (widow), pension ..
Woodard, Thomas F. , fee simple patent to.
Woodbridge Creek, N. J., appropriation for improvement of ........
Woodbridge, S. H., deficiency appropriation for services .....

Page. 1569 1008 350 570

Woodbury, Robert S. ,

return from the President requested of pen-

sion bill

1766

Woodford, Charles F., granted honorable discharge
Woodress, T. A. , payment to

1613 1758

Woodruff, Jane,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ..

209

Woodruff, Joseph H. ,

pension

1538

Woods, Abel,

pension increased .

1624

Woods Hole, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of channel 332

deficiency appropriation for fish hatchery . 11

preliminary examination of, to be made,

Little Harbor...

379

Woodsman's Handbook,

restriction on printing and distribution of. 746

no copies to be sold, etc., by superintend-

ent of documents

747

copyrighted matter to be protected

747

Woodstock, New Brunswick, appropriation for consul at

85,817

Woodward, Elijah A. ,

pension increased .

1674

Woodward, Frederick S.,

pension

1686

Woodward, James D. ,

pension increased ..

1257

Woodward, Moses,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

223, 231

Woolfolk, T. N.,

payment to .

487

Woolsey, Mabel A. ( daughter) ,

pension .

1720

Woonsocket, R. I.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase ofpublic building site authorized . 1208

Woosung Bar Light-Ship,

deficiency appropriation for owners of.... 1054 Worcester County, Mass.,

condemned cannon donated to , for statue

of General Devens ...

751

Worden, Asa,

pension increased .......

1522

Worden, Mary Louise (widow ) ,

pension increased..

1307

Works, Nancy (widow),

pension ..

1602

Worley, J. V.,

payment to

1571

Worthen, Helen M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1432

Wounded, Sick and,

principles of Geneva convention as to,

adapted to maritime warfare

1827

Wrangell Narrows, Alaska, preliminary examination of, to be made.. 376

Wrapping Paper, Postal Service, appropriation for .
Wrapping Twine, etc. , Postal Service, appropriation for
deficiency appropriation for

113, 1171
113, 1171 1061

VOL XXXII, PT 2- -65

2250

INDEX .

Wrenn, William H. , payment to

Page. 491

Wright, Cornelia E. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1300

Wright, E. T., deficiency appropriation for services ..... 572

Wright, Eliza A. (widow) ,
pension . Wright, Frederick,
pension increased ..

1321 ... 1367

Wright, James,

payment to

1453

Wright, John,

pension increased ..

1558

Wright, John,

pension increased .

1597

Wright, John A.,

pension increased .

1536

Wright, John C. ,

pension increased .

1724

Wright, John W., payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 215

Wright, Oliver G. ,

pension increased..

1667

Wright, Peter, and Sons,

claim referred to Court of Claims; pay-

ment

764

Wylie, Benjamin,

pension ...

1281

Wyman, Oliver K.,

pension increased ..

1430

Wyman, William,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

228

Wyoming,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc

164, 899

for expenses Yellowstone Park

236

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in

258, 994

proclamation changing boundaries of Big Horn Forest Reserve..
Medicine Bow Forest Reserve Yellowstone and Teton forest reserves . Yellowstone Forest Reserve consolidating Absaroka and Teton forest
reserves with Yellowstone

2004 2015 1999 2006
2030

establishing Medicine Bow Forest Re-

serve

2003

public-land receipts in, to be used for irri-

gation

388

resurvey of certain townships in, directed . 767

bona fide rights not impaired ..

767

Y.

Yakey, David C.,

pension increased ..

1584

Yakima County, Wash. ,

time extended for completing desert-land

entries .

548

Yakima, etc., Indians, Wash. , appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 257,993

Yalobusha River, Miss. , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 380

Yamhill River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of............

369

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 381

Yankton Agency, S. Dak. , appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 246, 983

Yankton, S. Dak. ,

construction authorized of public building

at

1207

deficiency appropriation for.

1038

purchase of public building site author-

ized

320

appropriation for

429

Yankton, S. Dak. -Continued.

Page.

time extended for bridging Missouri River

at

35

Yankton Tribe, Sioux Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with ... 254

Yant, Samantha (widow),

pension ...

1712

Yaquina River, Oreg.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 382

Yarmouth, Nova Scotia,

appropriation for consul at

85,817

Yates, Austin A. ,

credit in accounts .

1697

Yates, Richard, and George Pollard,

payment of French spoliation claim to ex-

ecutrix of ..

222

Yates, Simon M.,

66 pension

1729

Yazoo," Ironclad Monitor,

claim for extra compensation referred to

Court of Claims ..

244

Yazoo River, Miss., appropriation for improvement of..................... 355

Yeatman, Sarah,

payment to ..

490

Yeaton, Justin H.,

payment to ..

488

Yellott, Jeremiah, payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministrator of

233

Yellow Fever,

appropriation for preventing epidemic . 450 , 1112 Yellowstone National Park,

appropriation for commissioner; salary

permitted .

170,906

for refunding expenses paid by Wyo-

ming

236

for protecting, etc..

456, 1119

for survey, eastern boundary

456

for improvement of .. contract ..

466, 1130 466

allotment to forest reserves .

466

deficiency appropriation for transportation of freight .
for purchase of buffalo .
use of electricity by private parties Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo. ,
proclamation establishing . enlarging boundaries.

12 574 1130
2000 2006

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo. and Mont. ,

proclamation consolidating Teton and Ab-

saraka forest reserves with

2030

Yellowstone Park Timber Land Reserve,

changed to Yellowstone Park Forest Re-

serve, Wyo .....

1999

Yellowstone River, Mont. and N. Dak. , provision for improvement of, repealed...... 374

Yemans, Sarah E. (widow),

pension increased..

1622

Yerba Buena Island, Cal.,

appropriation for naval apprentice training

station ...

664, 1178

for public works, training station ... 676, 1188

for marine barracks ...

689

for oil house, light-house depot ...

1093

deficiency appropriation for naval training

station .

1051

Yokohama, Japan,

appropriation for consul-general at ...... 81 , 813

for clerk hire ...

86, 818

for naval hospital, new building..

1190

Yonkers, N. Y. ,

report to be made on post-office building

for....

326

York, Alice,

payment to

1453

INDEX .

2251

York Harbor, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made..
York, John, pension .
York, Nebr.,

Page. 379
1413

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing site

1039

purchase of public building site author-

ized

1208

York River, Va. ,
appropriation for improvement of.. for lighting..
Yosemite National Park,

351 433, 1094

appropriation for protecting, etc ...... 456, 1119

Young, Aaron,

pension increased .

1623

Young, Clarissa,

payment of Court of Claims judgment to

administratrix of ..

212

Young, Edwin,

pension increased .

1469

Young, George H.,

pension increased ..

1537

Young, Isaac, payment of Court of Claims judgment to . 208

Young, James,

payment to estate of

488

Young, James S.,

pension increased .

1511

Young, James W.,

pension increased ..

1530

Young, John,
payment of Court of Claims judgment to . Young, John L.,
payment to legal representatives of

212 1645

Young, Joseph,

payment of French spoliation claim to ad-

ministratrices of ..

226

Young, Martha G. (mother),

pension .

1476

Young Men's Christian Associations, International Committee.

authorized to maintain buildings on mili-

tary reservations

282

Young, Merritt, pension increased ..

Page. 1643

Young, S. Agnes (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1376

Young, Thomas,

pension increased .

1340

Young Women's Christian Home, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance..

613, 979

Youngs, George W.,

pension increased .

1430

Youngstown, Ohio,

limit of cost increased, public building ; ad-

ditional land

313

appropriation for

426

Z.

Zanesville, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at

319

appropriation for

428, 1070

Zanzibar, treaty with Great Britain as to duties in.. 1959

Zanzibar, Zanzibar, appropriation for consul at for interpreters and guards .

84, 816 87,819

Zickerick, William,

pension increased .

1589

Ziegenfuss, Theresia (widow),

pension increased .

1544

Zimmerman, Solomon,

payment to

489

Zittau, Germany, appropriation for consul at .

85,817

Zollinger, Mary F. (widow), pension
Zoological Park, D. C. , National, appropriation for expenses of.. for elephant house . deficiency appropriation for
Zurich, Switzerland, appropriation for consul at for clerk hire ..

1388
440, 1102 440 585
82, 815 86, 818



The home

IVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVE

BRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBE

TANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD

Y LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY

IVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIV

IBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIB

TANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

D UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD

Y LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY

IVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIV

IBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIB

TANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

SITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD

UNIVERSITY

LIBRARIES

. .

STANFORD

ITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSI

ES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARI

RD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFO

ANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UN

BRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIB

ITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSIT ES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY L

ORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

ANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UN

BRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIB

TY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSIT ES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIE

ORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

STANFOR

ANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STANFORD UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES STA

NIVERSITY LIBRARIES SSTTAANNFFOORRDD UNIV

ES STANFORD UN

ALAY

