This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

3 2044 103 137 162

RVARD LAW LIBRARY

FOREWORD

This volume is an exact photo-reproduction of an original copy of
UNITED STATES STATUTES AT LARGE

VOLUME 8

As a copy of the original is practically unobtainable, this reprint is offered to enable Law Libraries to complete their set.
The edition has a limited printing.

Buffalo, N. Y. November, 1963

DENNIS & CO. , INC.

United States . [laws , str .] BY AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS. THE
Public Statutes at Large OF THE

UNITED

STATES OF FROM THE

AMERICA ,

ORGANIZATION OF THE GOVERNMENT IN 1789, TO MARCH 3, 1845. ARRANGED IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER. WITH

REFERENCES TO THE MATTER OF EACH ACT AND TO THE SUBSEQUENT ACTS ON THE SAME SUBJECT, AND

COPIOUS NOTES OF THE DECISIONS OF THE

Courts of the United States CONSTRUING THOSE ACTS, AND UPON THE SUBJECTS OF THE LAW S.
WITH AN INDEX TO THE CONTENTS OF EACH VOLUME,
AND A
FULL GENERAL INDEX TO THE WHOLE WORK, IN THE CONCLUDING VOLUME.
TOGETHER WITH The Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and
the Constitution of the United States ; AND ALSO,
TABLES, IN THE LAST VOLUME, CONTAINING LISTS OF THE ACTS RELATING to the JUDICIARY, IMPOSTS AND TONNAGE, THE PUBLIC LANDS, ETC.

EDITED BY
RICHARD PETERS , ESQ., COUNSELLOR AT LAW.

ZangRR KF

The rights and interest of the United States in the stereotype plates from which this work is printed, are hereby recognised, acknowledged, and declared by the publishers, according to theprovisions ofthe joint resolution of Congress, passed March 3,1845.



VOL. VIII . BOSTON : LITTLE , BROWN AND COMPANY .

1.8

1867 .

Ertered according to act of Congress, in the year 1846, by CHARLES C. LITTLE & JAMES BROWN,
In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the District of Margachusetts

.

"To the Hon. J. Y. MASON, Attorney-General of the United States.

" SIR :
" THE undersigned, the Joint Committee of the last Congress upon the Library, having had an opportunity of examining the first volume of the new edition of the Laws and Treaties of the United States, published by Messrs. Little & Brown , under the Resolve of the last session , passed in pursuance of the Report of that Committee , have thought it might not be improper to express an opinion upon this specimen of the work. And we have great satisfaction in saying, that it most fully answers the expectations with which we recommended, and with which, as we think, Congress invited, the publication of this edition. It conforms substantially to the plan which the Resolve instructed, improving upon it where it differs at all ; is executed with great mechanical neatness ; and, if the whole shall be completed as it is here begun, the Government, the Profession , and the Country, will have the entire series of all our Public and Private Legislation , in force or obsolete, and of all our Diplomacy, in a natural, easy arrangement, for consultation and reference ; with very perfect indices, with references in the margin, and notes to all the other Statutes, Resolves, or Treaties , relating to the matter of the text, and to all Judicial Decisions of all the Federal Courts applicable to the same matter ; constituting an absolutely authoritative national work. We learn that every law and treaty has been carefully collated with the originals in the Department of State.
"It was deemed of much importance that the judgment of the Attorney-General should be pronounced upon the successive volumes of the edition, as they should appear, and before they should be accepted, and we think the Publishers may with great confidence hope for your approval of this first of the series.
"We have the honor to be,
"With great respect, " Your obedient servants,

" RUFUS CHOATE, " BENJ. TAPPAN , " J. A. PEARCE,

Committee on the part of the Senate, 28th Congress.

" EDMUND BURKE, "W. B. MACLAY, " GEORGE P. MARSH,

Committee on the part of the House of Representa tives, 28th Congress

iv

LETTERS .

" To the Hon. RUFUS CHOATE, Hon. BENJ. TAPPAN, Hon. J. A. PEARCE ; EDMUND BURKE, W. B. MACLAY, GEORGE P. MARSH.

" GENTLEMEN :

" ATTORNEY- GENERAL'S OFFICE, April 1st, 1846.

" I HAVE had the honor to receive your communication, accompanying the first volume of the new edition of the Laws of the United

States, published by Messrs. Little & Brown, of Boston. The Publishers

have now delivered five volumes, containing all the general Laws ; and it

has given me great pleasure to have it in my power to certify the highly satisfactory character of this portion of the work. It is, in the highest degree, creditable to the Publishers.

" Although, by the terms of the Joint Resolution of Congress, my

duty was limited to making a contract for one thousand copies, and to certifying that its conditions were complied with, I have been consulted ,

unreservedly, by the Publishers, in every stage of their work, and have found them at all times ready to adopt any suggestion to secure accu-

racy in the publication, regardless of personal trouble or of expense. " So far as the original Rolls exist, they have been examined and
carefully compared by competent persons with the sheets of this edition of the Laws ; and if any trivial errors shall be found, in the publication , they can be readily corrected in the stereotyped plates, and thus a perfect edition of the Laws of the United States will be obtained.
" I am gratified to find that the order and arrangement prescribed by Congress, in this edition , will greatly facilitate reference , and , I doubt not, will be highly satisfactory to the Profession and to the Public.
" My own experience in a judicial office has impressed me with the great value of such a publication , and I am happy to have contributed in any degree, in the preparation of so creditable a work.
"I have the honor to be, "With the highest respect, " Your obedient servant,

"J. Y. MASON. "

TREATIES BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
FOREIGN NATIONS , FROM THE DECLARATION OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE UNITED STATES TO 1815 :
WITH NOTES .
EDITED BY RICHARD PETERS , ESQ .
COUNSELLOR AT LAW.

TABLE OF THE CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIII .

1 Treaties between the United States of America and Foreign Nations .. 2 Index to the Treaties between the United States and Foreign Nations

Page 1 ... 619

3. General Index to the Eight Volumes of the Statutes at Large.

LIST OF THE
TREATIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
FOREIGN NATIONS .

32

88

Lage

Treaty making power ....

1

Cases decided in the Courts of the United States as to the obligation and construction of treaties 2

Treaty of alliance between the United States of America and His Most Christian Majesty .... 6

Treaty of amity and commerce between the United States and His Most Christian Majesty.

February 6, 1778

12

Treaty of amity and commerce between their High Mightinesses, the States General of the

United Netherlands, and the United States of America, to wit : New Hampshire, Massa-

chusetts, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,

Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.

October 8, 1782 ....

32

Convention between the Lords, the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United

States of America, concerning vessels re-captured. October 8, 1782

50

Provisional articles between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty. November

30, 1782 .....

54

Armistice declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and Great Britain.

January 20, 1783 ....

58

Treaty of amity and commerce, concluded between his Majesty the King of Sweden, and the

United States of America. April 3, 1783..........

... 60

Definitive treaty of peace between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty.

September 3, 1783........

80

ATreaty of amity and commerce between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States

of America. July, August, and September, 1785 ..

84

Treaty of peace and friendship between the United States of America and his Imperial Majesty,

the Emperor of Morocco. January; 1787 .......

100

Convention between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America. November

14, 1788 ...

...... 106

Treaty ofamity, commerce, and navigation, between his Britannic Majesty and the United States

of America, by their President, with the advice and consent of their Senate. November

19, 1794....

... 116

Additional article to the treaty with Great Britain of November 19, 1794. May 4, 1796 ....... 130

Explanatory article, to be added to the treaty with Great Britain of November 19, 1794. March

15, 1798 ...

131

A treaty ofpeace and amity between the Dey of Algiers and the United States of America. Sep.

tember 5, 1795 .......

133

Treaty of friendship, limits, and navigation, between the United States of America and the King

of Spain. October 27, 1795 .

138

Treaty of peace and friendship, between the United States of America and the Bey and subjects

of Tripoli of Barbary. November 4, 1796 ....

154

VOL. VIII.

2

(ix )

X

LIST OF THE FOREIGN TREATIES.

Pag

Treaty ofpeace and friendship, between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Tunis.

August, 1797, March 26, 1799

157

Treaty of amity and commerce, between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States

of America. July 11 , 1799 ..

..... 162

Convention between the French Republic and the United States of America. September 30, 1800 178

Ratification by the United States, the second article being expunged .

192

Ratification by the French Republic .....

193

Convention between the United States and Great Britain. January 8, 1802 .

196

A convention between his Catholic Majesty and the United States of America, for the indemnification of those who have sustained losses, damages, or injuries, in consequence of the

excesses of individuals of either nation, during the late war, contrary to the existing

treaty, or the laws of nations. August 11 , 1802 ...

198

Treaty between the United States of America and the French Republic. April 30, 1803 ...... 200 Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic. April 30, 1803 ... 206

Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic. April 30, 1803 ... 208

Treaty of peace and amnity, between the United States of America, and the Bashaw, Bey, and

subjects of Tripoli, in Barbary. June 4, 1805 ..

... 214

Treaty of peace and amity, between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America.

December 24, 1814....

218

Treaty of peace and amity, concluded between the United States of America and his Highness

Omar Bashaw, Dey of Algiers. June, and July 6, 1815 ..........

224

A convention to regulate the commerce between the Territories of the United States and his

Britannic Majesty. July 3, 1815 ....

228

Arrangement between the United States and Great Britain, between Richard Rush, Esq., acting

as Secretary of the Department of State, and Charles Bagot, his Britannic Majesty's

Envoy Extraordinary, &c. April, 1817 ..

231

Treaty with Sweden. September 4 , 1816

232

Treaty of peace and amity, concluded between the United States of America and the Dey and

Regency of Algiers. December 23 and 24, 1816 ..

... 244

Convention with Great Britain. October 20, 1818 .

248

Decision of the Commissioners under the fourth article of the treaty of Ghent

250

Treaty of amity, settlement, and limits, between the United States of America and his Catholic

Majesty. February 22, 1819, and October 29 , 1820 .

252

Decision of the Commissioners under the sixth article of the Treaty of Ghent, done at Utica, in

the State of New York, June 18, 1822 ....

274

Convention of navigation and commerce, between the United States of America and his Majesty

the King of France and Navarre. June 24, 1822 ...

278

Treaty with Great Britain. July 12, 1822 ...

282

Altered articles of the treaty of peace and friendship, between the United States and the Bashaw

Bey of Tunis. February 24, 1824

298

Convention between the United States of America and Russia. April 5-17, 1824 ...

302

General convention of peace, amity, navigation, and commerce, between the United States of

America and the Republic of Colombia. October 3, 1824 .....

..... 306

General convention of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation, between the United States of

America and the Federation of the Centre of America. December 5, 1825 .....

322

General convention of friendship, commerce, and navigation , between the United States of Ame-

rica and his Majesty the King of Denmark. April 26, 1826 ......

340

Convention between the United States of America and Great Britain. November 13, 1826 ..... 344

Treaty with Sweden and Norway. July 4, 1827 ........

346

Convention with Great Britain. August 6, 1827 .....

360

Convention between the United States of America and Great Britain. September 29, 1827 .... 362

Convention of friendship, commerce, and navigation, between the United States of America and

the free Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg. December 20, 1827 .. 366

Treaty of limits, between the United States of America and the United Mexican States. January

12, 1:28 ....

372

LIST OF THE FOREIGN TREATIES.

XI

1250

Addition. article to the treaty of limits, concluded between the United States of America and

the United Mexican States, on the 12th day of January, 1828.........

376

.......

Treaty of commerce and navigation, between the United States of America and his Majesty the

King of Prussia. May 1, 1828 .

379

Additional article to the convention of friendship, commerce, and navigation, concluded at Wash.

ington, on the twentieth day of December, 1827, between the United States of America

and the Hanscatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen , and Hamburg. June 4, 1828 ...

386

Treaty with Brazil. December 12, 1828 ......

390

Treaty of commerce and navigation, between the United States of America and his Majesty the

Emperor of Austria. August 26, 1829 ....

398

Convention between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Denmark, signed

at Copenhagen the 28th March, 1830 .....

402

Treaty with the Ottoman Porte. May 7, 1830

408

A treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, between the United States of America and the

United Mexican States. April 5, 1831

410

Convention with France. July 4 , 1831 ......

430

General convention of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation, between the United States of

America and the Republic of Chile. May 16, 1832

434

Convention between the Government of the United States of America and his Majesty the King

ofthe Kingdom of the two Sicilies, to terminate the reclamations of said Government, for

the depredations inflicted upon American commerce by Murat, during the years 1809,

1810, 1811 , and 1812. October 14, 1832 ..

442

Treaty with Russia. December 6-18, 1832 .

444

Treaty of amity and commerce between his Majesty, the Magnificent King of Siam , and the

United States of America. March 20 , 1833

454

An additional and explanatory convention to the treaty of peace, amity, commerce, and naviga

tion, concluded in the city of Santiago, on the 16th day of May, 1832, between the United

States of America and the Republic of Chile. September 1 , 1833 .

456

A treaty of amity and commerce, between the United States of America and his Majesty Seyed

Syeed Bin, Sultan of Muscat, and his dependencies. September 21, 1833

458

Convention for the settlement of claims, between the United States of America and her Catholic

Majesty. February 17, 1834 ...

460

Convention with Mexico. April 3, 1835

464

Treaty of peace, friendship, navigation, and commerce, between the United States of America

and the Republic of Venezuela. January 20, 1836 .....

466

Treaty with Morocco. September 16, 1836 ......

484

General convention of peace, friendship, commerce, and navigation, between the United States

of America and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation. November 30, 1836

487

Treaty of commerce and navigation, between the United States of America and his Majesty the

King of Greece. December 10-22, 1837

498

Convention between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

Republic of Texas, to terminate the reclamations of the former Government for the cap.

ture, scizure, and detention of the brigs Pocket and Durango, and for injuries suffered by

American citizens on board the Pocket. April 11 , 1838 ..

510

Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Texas, for marking the

boundary between them. April 25, 1838

.... 511

Treaty with Sardinia. November 26, 1838

512

Treaty with the King of the Netherlands. January 19, 1839 ....

524

Convention for the adjustment of claims of citizens of the United States of America upon the

Government of the Mexican Republic. April 11 , 1839

526

Treaty with Ecuador. June 13, 1839

534

Treaty with the King of Hanover. May 20, 1840

552

Treaty with Portugal. August 26 , 1340 ..

560

Convention with Peru. March 17, 1841 ..

570

A treaty,to settle and define the boundaries between the territories of the United States and the

possessions of her Britannic Majesty in North America ; for the final suppression ofthe

African slave trade ; and for the giving up of criminals, fugitives from justice , in certain

cases. August 9, 1842 ....

572

XII

LIST OF THE FOREIGN TREATIES.

Pago

Convention, further to provide for the payment of awards in favour of claimants, under the con-

vention between the United States and the Mexican Republic, of the 11th April 1839.

January 30, 1843 ..

... 578

Convention for the surrender of criminals, between the United States ofAmerica and his Majesty

the King of the French. November 9, 1843 ...........

580

Postal convention, between the United States of North America and the Republic of New

Granada. March 6, 1844...

..... 584

Convention for the mutual abolition of the droit d'aubaine, and taxes on emigration, between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Wurttemburg. April 10, 1844 .. 588

Treaty with China. July 3, 1844..............

592

Treaty of commerce and navigation, between the United States of America and his Majesty the

King of the Belgians. November 10, 1845 .....

606

TREATIES .

TREATY - MAKING POWER.

By the ARTICLEs of ConfederaTION of July 8, 1778, the following provisions were made relative to treaties by the United States :
Article 6, section 1. " No state, without the consent of the United

States, in Congress assembled, shall send any embassy to, or receive any embassy from, or enter into any confirmed agreement, alliance or treaty with any king, prince or state ; nor shall any person holding any

office of profit or trust under the United States or any of them, accept of any present, emolument , office or title of any kind whatsoever, from any king, prince or foreign state ; nor shall the United States in Congress assembled, or any of them, grant any title of nobility." Vol. I. 5.
SEC. 2. " No two or more states shall enter into any treaty, confederation or alliance whatever between them, without the consent of the United States in Congress assembled, specifying accurately the purposes

for which the same is to be entered into, and how long it shall continue." Vol. I. 5.
Article 9, sec. 1. " The United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole and exclusive right and power of determining on peace

and war, except in cases mentioned in the sixth article ; of sending and receiving ambassadors, entering into treaties and alliances, provided that no treaty of commerce shall be made whereby the legislative power of the respective states shall be restrained from imposing such imposts and duties on foreigners as their own people are subjected to, or from prohibiting the exportation or importation of any species of goods or commodities whatsoever ; of establishing rules for deciding in all cases what captures on land or water shall be legal, and in what manner prizes taken by land or naval forces in the service of the United States

shall be decided or appropriated ; of granting letters of marque and reprisal in times of peace ; appointing courts for the trial of piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas ; and establishing courts for receiving and determining finally appeals in all cases of captures ; provided that no member of Congress shall be appointed a judge of any of the said courts." Vol. I. 6.
SEC. 6. " The United States in Congress assembled shall never en-

gage in a war nor grant letters of marque and reprisal in time of peace, nor enter into any treaties or alliances, nor coin money, nor regulate the value thereof, nor ascertain the sums and expenses necessary for the defence and welfare of the United States, or any of them, nor emit bills nor borrow money on the credit of the United States, nor appropriate money, nor agree upon the number of vessels of war to be built or purchased, or the number of land or sea forces to be raised , nor appoint a commander-in-chief of the army or navy , unless nine States assent to the same ; nor shall a question on any other point except for adjourning from day to day, be determined unless by the votes of a majority of the United States in Congress assembled." Vol. I. 8.
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES , article 2, section 2, pro-

vides " He (the President of the United States) shall have power, by

and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided

VOL. VIII. 1

A

(1)

2

TREATIES .

two-thirds of the Senators present concur ; he shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint ambassadors , other
public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the United States whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which may be established by law." Vol. I. 17 .
Article 6. " This Constitution , and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made or which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land ; and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, any thing in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding." Vol. I. 19.

CASES DECIDED IN THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES , AS TO THE OBLIGATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF TREATIES .
The obligation of a treaty, the supreme law of the land , must be admitted. The execution of the contract between the two nations is to be demanded from the executive of each nation ; but where a treaty
affects the rights of parties litigating in court, the treaty as much binds those rights, and is as much regarded by the Supreme Court as an act of Congress. United States v. The Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 256.
The termination of a treaty, by war, does not divest rights of property already vested under it. Society for the Propagation of the Gospel v. The Town of New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464 ; 5 Cond . Rep. 489.
Nor do treaties, in general, become extinguished , ipso facto, by war between the two governments. Those stipulating for a permanent arrangement of territorial and other national rights, are, at most, suspended during the war, and revive at the peace , unless they are waived by the parties, or new and repugnant stipulations are made. Ibid.
Where a treaty is the law of the land , and as such affects the rights of parties litigating in court, that treaty as much binds those rights, and is as much to be regarded by the court, as an act of Congress. To condemn a vessel, therefore, the restoration of which is directed by the law of the land, though restoration be an executive act , would be a direct infraction of that law, and, of consequence, improper. United States v. The Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 256.
A treaty, under the sixth article, section 2, ofthe Constitution , being the supreme law of the land, the treaty of peace of 1783 operated as a repeal of all state laws previously enacted, inconsistent with its provisions. Ware v. Hylton , 3 Dall. 199 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 99.
Whenever a right grows out of, or is protected by, a treaty, it prevails against all laws, or decisions of the courts of the states, and whoever may have the right under the treaty, is protected. But, if the person's title is not affected by the treaty, if he claims nothing under the treaty, his title cannot be protected by it. Ibid.
The stipulation in a treaty, that " free ships shall make free goods," does not imply the converse proposition , that enemy's ships shall make enemy's goods. The Nereide, Bennet, Master, 9 Cranch , 388 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 439.
À treaty is , in its nature, a contract between two nations, not a legis lative act. It does not generally effect of itself the object to be accom-
plished, especially so far as its operation is infra-territorial ; but is carried into execution by the sovereign power of the respective parties to the instrument. Foster et al. v . Neilson , 2 Peters, 314 ; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 735.
In the United States, a different principle is established. Our Constitution declares a treaty to be the law of the land. It is, consequently,

TREATIES . 
to be regarded in courts ofjustice as equivalent to an act of the legislature, whenever it operates of itself, without the aid of any legislative provision. But, when the terms of the stipulation import a contract, when either of the parties engages to perform a particular act, the treaty addresses itself to the political, not the judicial department ; and the legislature must execute the contract before it can become a rule for the court. Ibid.
By the stipulations of a treaty, are to be understood its language and apparent intention , manifested in the instrument, with a reference to the contracting parties, the subject matter, and the persons on whom it is to operate. United States v. Arredondo et al , 6 Peters, 710.
A treaty of cession is a deed of the ceded territory, and the sovereign is the grantee ; the act is his, as far as it relates to the cession ; the treaty is his act and deed , and all courts must so consider it : and deeds are construed in equity by the rules of law. Ibid. 738.
Where a treaty is executed in two languages, each the language of the respective contracting parties, both parts of the treaty are originals, and both are intended to convey the same meaning. Ibid.
Where a treaty has been ratified according to the provisions of the Constitution, it becomes the law of the land ; and it is perfectly immaterial, whether or not the persons who signed it did or did not transcend their instructions. Hamilton v. Eaton , North Carolina Cases, 77.
A treaty does not necessarily annul prior statutes, if there is no interference with them. Ibid.
The stipulations in a treaty between the United States and a foreign power, are paramount to the provisions of the constitution of a particular state, or the confederacy. Lessee of Harry Gordon v. Kerr et al 1 Wash. C. C. R. 322.
A treaty between the United States and one belligerent, does not affect a question of prize, as between two belligerents, where the prize (captured from the belligerent making the treaty) is brought by the other belligerent into the ports of the United States ; nor is it important that the capturing vessel was commanded by an American citizen . The treaty can bind only the parties to it ; and whatever operation it may have on the American citizen, individually, it cannot affect the general question ofthe validity of prizes made between belligerents. The Santissima Trinidad, 1 Brockenb. C. C. R. 478.
A judgment of a state court, where jurisdiction was acquired, not by the common law, but by a statute of a state, which, before the rendition of the judgment, had been virtually repealed by the adoption of a treaty, was voidable, and not void. Livingston v. Van Ingen, Paine's C. C. R. 55.
In 1780, the ancestor of the lessors of the plaintiff was indicted , he being a British subject, in the Supreme Court of New York, under the act entitled " An act for the forfeiture and sale of the property of persons who have adhered to the enemies of this state," &c.; and in October, 1783, a judgment of forfeiture against his estates was rendered. The treaty of 1783, against any subsequent confiscation , was signed in September, 1783. Held, that the proceedings were void. Ibid.
The stipulations of a treaty are paramount to the provisions of the constitution of a particular state of the United States. Gordon's lessee v. Kerr, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 322.
Whenever a right grows out of or is protected by a treaty, it is sanctioned against all the laws and judicial decisions of the states ; and whoever may have this right is protected. But if the person's title is not affected by the treaty, if he claims nothing under the treaty, his title cannot be protected by the treaty. Owing v. Norwood's lessee, 5 Cranch, 344. 2 Cond. Rep. 275.
The adoption of a treaty, with the stipulations of which the provisions

4

TREATIES .

of a state law are inconsistent, is equivalent to the repeal of such law Lessee of Fisher v. Harnden, 1 Paine, C. C. R. 55.
A treaty goes into operation from the date of the signature, if no other period is agreed upon between the parties. Lessee of Hylton v Brown, 1 Wash. C. C. R. 343.
The Constitution of the United States confers absolutely on the government of the United States the power of making war and of making treaties. Consequently that government possesses the power of acquiring territory, either by conquest or by treaty. The American Insurance Company v. 356 bales of Cotton, I Peters, 542.
The usage of the world is, if a nation be not entirely subdued , to consider the holding of conquered territory as a mere military occupation, until its fate shall be determined at the treaty of peace. If it be ceded by treaty, the acquisition is confirmed, and the ceded territory becomes a part of the nation to which it is annexed, either on the terms stipulated in the treaty of cession, or on such as its new master shall impose. On such transfer of territory it has never been held, that the relations of the inhabitants with each other are changed. Their relations with their former sovereign are dissolved, and new relations are created between them and the government which has acquired their territory. The same act which transfers their country transfers the allegiance of those who remain in it, and the law which may be denominated political is necessarily changed, although that which regulates the intercourse and general conduct of individuals remains in force until altered by the newly created power of the state. Ibid.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE
Between the United States of America and His Most Christian Majesty. (a)

Feb. 6, 1778.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE .

Annulled by
oacftJouflyCo7n, g1r7e9s8s, ch. 67, vol. 1 , 578.

The Most Christian King and the United States of North America ; to wit : New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-bay, Rhode-Island, Connect-
icut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir-
ginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, having this day. concluded a treaty of Amity and Commerce, for the reciprocal advantage

of their subjects and citizens, have thought it necessary to take into consideration the means of strengthening those engagements, and of

rendring them useful to the safety and tranquility of the two parties ;

particularly in case Great Britain, in resentment of that connection and

of the good correspondence which is the object of the said treaty, should

break the peace with France , either by direct hostilities, or by hindring

her commerce and navigation in a manner contrary to the rights of nations, and the peace subsisting between the two crowns : And his

Majesty and the said United States, having resolved in that case to join their councels and efforts against the enterprises of their common

enemy, the respective plenipotentiaries empowered to concert the clauses and conditions proper to fulfil the said intentions, have, after

the most mature deliberation , concluded and determined on the follow-

ing articles :

ART. I.

Ifwar break

If war should break out between France and Great Britain during

out with Great Britain, to be a

the

continuance

of the present war between the

United

States

and

common cause. England, his Majesty and the said United States shall make it a com-

mon cause and aid each other mutually with their good offices , their counsels and their forces, according to the exigence of conjunctures,

as becomes good and faithful allies.

(a) The treaties and conventions between the United States and France, have been : 1. Treaty of alliance between the United States of America and his Most Christian Majesty, concluded at Paris the 6th day of February, 1778. Annulled by act of Congress, passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67, vol. 1, 578.
2. Treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America and his Most Christian Majesty, concluded at Paris the 6th day of February, 1778 ; post, 12. Annulled by act of Congress , passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67, vol. 1 , 578.
3. Contract between his Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, entered into at Paris bythe Count de Vergennes and Mr. Franklin , the 16th July 1782, and ratified by Congress the 22d January 1783 ; post, 596.
4. Convention between his Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, for the purpose of defining and establishing the functions and privileges of their respective consuls and vice- consuls. Entered into at Paris the 14th day of November 1788, post , 106. Annulled by act ofCongress passed July 7, 1798. Ch. 67 , vol. 1 , 578.
5. Convention between the French Republic and the United States, done at Paris the 30th of Septem . ber 1800 the Senate of the United States concurring on the 3d day of February 1801 , with the excep. tion ofthe second article, and substituting another article, limiting the continuance of the treaty to twelve
(6)

TRAITÉ D'ALLIANCE
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majeste Tres Chretienne.
TRAITÉ D'ALLIANCE ,
éventuelle et déffensive.
Le Roi très Chrétien et les Etats Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale, favoir, New-Hampshire, la Baye de Massachuset, Rhode-Island , Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvanie, Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgia ; ayant conclu ce jourd'huy un traité d'amitié , de bonne intelligence et de commerce, pour l'avantage réciproque de leurs sujets et citoyens, ils ont cru devoir prendre en considération , les moyens de refferrer leurs liaisons, et de les rendre utiles à la sureté et à la tranquilité des deux parties, notament dans le cas où la Grande Bretagne, en haine de ces mêmes liaisons et de la bonne correspondance qui forment l'objet du dit traité, se porteroit à rompre la paix avec la France , soit en l'attaquant hostilement, soit en troublant son commerce, et sa navigation, d'une maniere contraire au droit des gens et à la paix subsistante entre les deux couronnes : Et sa Majesté et les dits Etats Unis ayant résolu éventuellement d'unir, dans le cas prévû, leurs conseils et leurs efforts contre les entreprises de leur ennemi commun, les plenipotentiaires respectifs, chargés de concerter les clauses et conditions propres à remplir leurs intentions, ont, après la plus mure délibération conclu et arresté les points et articles qui s'ensuivent.
ARTICLE PREMIER.
Si la guerre éclate entre la France et la Grande Brétagne, pendant la durée de la guerre actuelle entre les Etats Unis et l'Angleterre, sa Majesté et les dits Etats Unis seront cause commune et s'entr'aideront mutuellement de leurs bons offices, de leurs conseils et de leurs forces, selon l'exigence des conjonctures, ainsy qu'il convient à de bons et fideles alliés.
years ; and afterwards by France, limiting the continuance of the treaty to eight years ; and the United States on the 31st July 1801 ; which ratifications were concurred in by the Senate on the 19th of Decem ber 1801 , as set forth in the proclamation of the President of the United States, under the date of 21st December 1801 ; post, 178.
6. Treaty between the United States of America and the French Republic ; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803 ; post, 200.
7. Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic ; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803 ; post, 206.
8. Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic ; done at Paris, on the 30th April 1803 ; post, 208.
9. Convention of navigation and commerce between the United States of America, and His Majesty the King of France and Navarre ; with a separate article. Signed at Washington , on the 24th day of June 1822 ; and ratified as stated in the proclamation of the President of the United States, dated the 12th day of February 1823 ; post, 278.
10. Convention with France, done at Paris, July 4, 1831 ; post, 430. 11. Convention for extradition of crminals ; post, 580, 617.
(7)

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

ART. II.

Object of the
treaty, independence of the United States.

The essential and direct end of the present defensive alliance is to maintain effectually the liberty, sovereignty and independance absolute and unlimited, of the said United States, as well in matters of gouvernement as of commerce.

ART. III.

Both parties to The two contracting parties shall each on its own part, and in the

make every effort to attain

manner it may judge most proper, make all the efforts in its power

that end.

against their common enemy, in order to attain the end proposed.

Concurrence in enterprise.

ART. IV .
The contracting parties agree that in case either of them should form any particular enterprise in which the concurrence of the other may be desired, the party whose concurrence is desired, shall readily and with good faith, join to act in concert for that purpose, as far as circumstances and its own particular situation will permit ; and in that case, they shall regulate, by a particular convention, the quantity and kind of succour to be furnished, and the time and manner of its being brought into action, as well as the advantages which are to be its compensation.

ART. V.

Conquests that shall belong to the U. States.

If the United States should think fit to attempt the reduction of the British power, remaining in the northern parts of America, or the islands
of Bermudas, those countries or islands in case of success, shall be confederated with, or dependant upon the said United States.

ART. VI.

France relin-
tqouicsehretsaianllccoluani-m tries, if conquered.

The Most Christian King renounces for ever the possession of the islands of Bermudas, as well as of any part of the continent of North America, which before the treaty of Paris in 1763, or in virtue of that treaty, were acknowledged to belong to the crown of Great Britain, or to the United States, heretofore called British colonies, or which are at this time, or have lately been under the power of the king and crown of Great Britain.

ART. VII.

Conquests that shall belong to France.

If his Most Christian Majesty shall think proper to attack any of the islands situated in the Gulph of Mexico, or near that Gulph, which are at present under the power of Great Britain, all the said isles, in case of success, shall appertain to the crown of France.

ART. VIII.

Neither party to conclude a treaty without the other's con.
sent, & c.

Neither of the two parties shall conclude either truce or peace, with Great Britain, without the formal consent of the other first obtained ; and they mutually engage not to lay down their arms until the independence of the United States shall have been formally or tacitly assured,
by the treaty or treaties that shall terminate the war.

ART . IX .

No claim of
compensation after the war.

The contracting parties declare, that being resolved to fu'fil each on its own part, the clauses and conditions of the present treaty of alliance, according to its own power and circumstances, there shall be no after claim of compensation on one side or the other, whatever may be the event of the war.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.
ARTICLE SECOND. Le but essentiel et direct de la présente alliance deffensive, est de maintenir efficacement la liberte, la souveraineté, et l'indépendance absolue et illimitée des dits Etats Unis, tant en matiére politique que de commerce.
ARTICLE TROIS.
Les deux parties contractantes feront chacune de leur côté, et de la maniére qu'elles jugeront plus convenable, tous les efforts, qui seront en leur pouvoir, contre leur ennemi commun , afin d'atteindre au but qu'elles se proposent.
ARTICLE QUATRE.
Les parties contractantes sont convenues que dans le cas où l'une d'entre elles formeroit quelqu' entreprise particuliére, pour laquelle elle désireroit le concours de l'autre, celle-ci, se prêteroit de bonne foi à un concert sur cet objet, autant que les circonstances et sa propre situation pourront le lui permettre, et dans ce cas, on réglera, par une convention particuliére, la portée des secours à fournir, et le tems et la maniére de le faire agir, ainsy que les avantages destinés à en former la compensation.
ARTICLE CINQ.
Si les Etats Unis jugent à propos de tenter la reduction des isles Bermudes et des parties septentrionales de l'Amerique, qui sont encore au pouvoir de la Grande Bretagne, les dites isles et contrées, en cas de succès, entreront dans la confedération ou seront dépendantes des dits Etats Unis.
ARTICLE SIX.
Le Roi très Chrétien renonce à posseder jamais les Bermudes, ni aucune des parties du continent de l'Amérique septentrionalle, qui, avant le traité de Paris de mil sept cent soixante trois, ou en vertu de ce traité, ont êté reconnues appartenir à la couronne de la Grande Bretagne, ou aux Etats Unis, qu'on appelloit ci-devant colonies Britanniques, ou qui sont maintenant, ou ont êté récemment sous la jurisdiction et sous le pouvoir de la couronne de la Grande Bretagne.
ARTICLE SEPT.
Si sa Majesté très Chrétienne juge à propos d'attaquer aucune des isles situées dans le golphe de Méxique ou près du dit golphe, qui sont actuellement au pouvoir de la Grande Bretagne, toutes les dites isles, en cas de succès, appartiendront à la couronne de France.
ARTICLE HUIT.
Aucune des deux parties ne pourra conclure ni treve ni paix avec la Grande Brétagne, sans le consentement préalable et formel de l'autre partie, et elles s'engagent mutuellement à ne mettre bas les armes, que lorsque l'indépendance des dits Etats Unis aura êté assurée formellement ou tacitement par le traité ou les traités qui termineront la guerre.
ARTICLE NEUF.
Les parties contractantes déclarent, qu'etant resolues de remplir chacune de son côté les clauses et conditions du présent traité d'alliance selon son pouvoir et les circonstances, elles n'auront aucune repetition, ni aucun dedommagement, à se demander réciproquement, quelque puisse etre l'evenement de la guerre.
VOL. VIII. 2

10

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE . 1778.

ART. X.

To admit other powers to accede to the alliance.

The Most Christian King and the United States agree, to invite or admit other powers who may have received injuries from England, to make common cause with them, and to accede to the present alliance,
under such conditions as shall be freely agreed to, and settled between all the parties.

Mutual gua. ranty.
Guaranty when to commence.

ART. XI.
The two parties guarantee mutually from the present time, and forever against all other powers, to wit : The United States to his Most Christian Majesty, the present possessions of the crown of France in America, as well as those which it may acquire by the future treaty of peace And his Most Christian Majesty guarantees on his part to the United States, their liberty, sovereignty and independence, absolute and unlimited, as well in matters of government as commerce, and also their possessions, and the additions or conquests, that their confederation may obtain during the war, from any of the dominions now, or heretofore possessed by Great Britain in North America, conformable to the 5th and 6th articles above written , the whole as their possessions shall be fixed and assured to the said states, at the moment of the cessation of their present war with England.
ART. XII.
In order to fix more precisely the sense and application of the preceding article, the contracting parties declare, that in case of a rupture between France and England, the reciprocal guarantee declared in the said article, shall have its full force and effect the moment such war shall break out ; and if such rupture shall not take place, the mutual obligations of the said guarantee shall not commence until the moment of the cessation of the present war, between the United States and England, shall have ascertained their possessions.

Ratification.

ART. XIII.
The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries, to wit : On the part of the Most Christian king, Conrad Alexander Gerard, Royal Syndic of the city of Strasbourgh, and Secretary of his Majesty's Council of State ; and on the part of the United States, Benjamin Franklin, Deputy to the General Congress from the state of Pennsylvania and President of the Convention of the same state ; Silas Deane, heretofore Deputy from the state of Connecticut, and Arthur Lee, Councellor at Law, have signed the above articles both in the French and English languages, declaring nevertheless, that the present treaty was originally composed and concluded in the French language, and they have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris, this sixth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

C. A. GERARD , B. FRANKLIN , SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(L. S.) (L. S. (L. S.) (L. S.)

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH FRANCE . 1778 .

ARTICLE DIX. Le Roi très Chretien et les Etats Unis sont convenus d'inviter de concert ou d'admettre les puissances, qui auront des griefs contre l'Angleterre, à faire cause commune avec eux, et à accéder à la présente alliance, sous les conditions qui seront librement agrées et convenues entre toutes les partiès.
ARTICLE ONZE.
Les deux parties se garantissent mutuellement dès à present et pour toujours envers et contre tous, savoir, les Etats Unis à sa Majesté très Chrétienne les possessions actuelles de la couronne de France en Amérique, ainsy que celles qu'elle pourra acquérir par le futur traité de paix; Et sa Majesté très Chretienne, garantit de son côté aux Etats Unis leur liberté, leur souveraineté et leur indépendance absolue et illimitée, tant en matiére de politique que de commerce, ainsy que leurs possessions et les accroissements ou conquêtes que leur confédération pourra se procurer pendant la guerre, d'aucun des domaines maintenant ou ci-devant possedés par la Grande Bretagne dans l'Amérique septentrionale, conformément aux articles cinq et six ci-dessus, et tout ainsy que leurs possessions seront fixées et assurées aux dits Etats, au moment de la cessation de leur guerre actuelle contre l'Angleterre.
ARTICLE DOUZE.
Afin de fixer plus précisément le sens et l'application de l'article précédent, les parties contractantes déclarent qu'en cas de rupture entre la France et l'Angleterre, la garantie réciproque enoncée dans le susdit article, aura toute sa force et valeur du moment où la guerre éclatera, et si la rupture n'avoit pas lieu, les obligations mutuelles de la ditte garantie, ne commenceroient, que du moment susdit , où la cessation de la guerre actuelle entre les Etats Unis et l'Angleterre aura fixé leurs possessions.
ARTICLE TREIZE.
Le present traité sera ratiffié de part et d'autre et les ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace de six mois ou plustôt si faire se peut.
En foi dequoi les plenipotentiaires respectifs, savoir, de la part du Roi très Chretien le S: Conrad , Alexandre Gerard , Sindic Royal de la Ville de Strasbourg et Sécrétaire du Conseil d'Etat de sa Majesté, et de la part des Etats Unis les S Benjamin Franklin, Deputé au Congrès Général de la part de l'etat de Pensylvanie et President de la Convention du meme etat ; Siles Deane cy-devant Député de l'etat de Connecticut, et Arthur Leé Conseiller ès Loix, ont signé les articles ci-dessus, tant en langue Françoise qu'en langue Angloise, déclarant néanmoins, que le present traité, a êté originairement redigé et arrêté en langue Françoise, et ils les ont munis du cachet de leurs armes.

Fait à Paris, le sixieme jour du mois de Fevrier, mil sept cent soixante dix-huit.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(L. s.) (L. S.) (L S. ( 1. s. )

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE Between the United States of America and His Most
Christian Majesty.

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE .

Feb. 6, 1778. ofAnJnuullyl7e,d1b7y98, act of Congress
th. 67.

THE Most Christian King, and the thirteen United States of North America, to wit : New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, willing to fix in an equitable and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be followed relative to the correspondence and commerce which the two parties desire to establish, between their respective countries, states and subjects, his Most Christian Majesty and the said United States, have
judged that the said end could not be better obtained than by taking for the basis of their agreement , the most perfect equality and reciprocity, and by carefully avoiding all those burthensome preferences which are usually sources of debate, embarrassment and discontent ; by leaving
also each party at liberty to make, respecting commerce and navigation, those interior regulations which it shall find most convenient to itself; and by founding the advantage of commerce solely upon reciprocal utility, and the just rules of free intercourse ; reserving withal to each party the liberty of admitting at its pleasure, other nations to a partici-
pation of the same advantages. It is in the spirit of this intention, and to fulfil these views, that his said Majesty having named and appointed for his plenipotentiary, Conrad Alexander Gerard , Royal Syndic of the city of Strasbourg, Secretary of his Majesty's Council of State ; and the
United States on their part, having fully impowered Benjamin Franklin,

Cases decided in the courts of the United States on the provisions of the treaty of amity and commerce

witThhFeratrnecaet,yooff1a7m7i8t;y aanndd tchoemcmoenrsculearofco1n7v7e8ntwiiotnh

with France, of November France, article 11 , enabling

14 , 1783 : French subjects

to

pur-

chase and hold lands in the United States, being abrogated in 1798 ; the act of Maryland of 1780, per-

mitting the lands of a French subject who had become a citizen of that state, dying intestate , to descend

on the next of kin , being a non-naturalized Frenchman, with a proviso vesting the lands in the state, if

the French heirs should not within ten years become resident citizens of the state, or convey the lands

to a citizen ; and the convention of 1800, between France and the United States, enabling the people of

one country, holding lands in the other, to dispose of the same by testament , and to inherit lands in the

other, without being naturalized : Held, that the latter treaty dispensed with the performance of the con-

dition in the act of Maryland , and that the constitutional rule applied equally to the case of those who

took by descent under the act, as to those who acquired by purchase without its aid. Chirac v. Chirac,

The further stipulation in the treaty, "that in case the laws of either of the two states should restrain 2stWrhanegaerts. f2r5o9m; t4heCoexnedrc. iRsee po.f1t1h1e. rights of property with respect to real estate, such real estate may be sold , or otherwise disposed of, to citizens or inhabitants of the country where it may be , " does not affect
the rights of a French subject who takes or holds by the convention , so as to deprive him of the power of selling to citizens of the country ; and gives to a French subject who has acquired lands by descent
or devise, (and, perhaps , in any other manner,) the right during life to sell or otherwise dispose of the same, if lying in a state where lands purchased by an alien, generally , would be immediately escheat-

Although the convention of 1800 has expired , immediately on a descent being cast on a French subject adbulrei.ng Iibtisd.continuance , his rights become complete under it, and cannot be affected by its subsequen

oxpiration. Ibid.

(12)

TRAITÉ D'AMITIÉ ET DE COMMERCE
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amérique et sa Majesté très Chretiênne.

TRAITÉ D'AMITIÉ ET DE COMMERCE .
Le Roi très Chretien et les treize Etats Unis de l'Amérique Septen-
trionale, savoir, New Hampshire, la Baye de Massachusset, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvanie, les comtés de Newcastle, de Kent et de Sussex sur la Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline, Septentrionale, Caroline Méridionale, et Georgie, voulant établir d'une maniere équitable et permanente les règles qui devront être suivies relativement à la correspondance et au commerce que les deux parties désirent d'établir entre leurs Païs Etats et sujets respectifs, sa Majesté très Chretienne et les dits Etats Unis ont jugé ne pouvoir mieux atteindre à ce but qu'en prenant pour base de leur arrangement l'égalité et la réciprocité la plus parfaite, et en observant d'éviter toutes les préférences onéreuses, source de discussions, d'embarras, et de mecontentemens, de laisser à chaque partie la liberté de faire, relativement au commerce et à la navigation les réglemens intérieurs qui seront à sa convenance , de ne fonder les avantages du commerce que sur son utilité reciproque et sur les loix d'une juste concurrence, et de conserver ainsi de part et d'autre la liberté de faire participer, chacun selon son gré, les autres nations, aux mêmes avantages. C'est dans cet esprit et pour remplir ces vues que sa d: Majesté ayant nommé et constitué pour son plénipotentiaire le S. Conrad Alexandre Gerard, Sindic Roïal de la ville de Strasbourg, Secretaire du Conseil d'Etat de sa Majesté, et les Etats

America was bound as an ally of France by the capitulation between France and Great Britain for the

surrender of Dominica. Miller v. The Ship Resolution, 2 Dall. Rep. 15.

The Phoebe Ann, a British vessel, had been captured by a French privateer, and sent into Charleston. Restitution of the prize was claimed by the British consul, who filed a libel in the district court, suggest-

ing that the privateer had been illegally fitted out, and had illegally augmented her force within the

United States. It appeared in proof that the privateer had originally entered the port of Charleston,

armed and commissioned for war ; and that she had taken out her guns, masts and sails, which remained

on shore until the general repairs of the vessel were completed, when they were again put on board , with the same force, or thereabouts ; and on a subsequent cruise, the prize was taken.

ELLSWORTH, Chief Justice. Suggestions of policy and convenience cannot be considered in the judi. cial determination of a question of right : the treaty with France, whatever that is, must have its effect

By the nineteenth article, it is declared that French vessels, whether public and of war, or private and ofmerchants, may, on any urgent necessity, enter our ports, and be supplied with all things needful for repairs. In the present case, the privateer only underwent a repair ; and the mere replacement of her

force cannot be a material augmentation ; even if an augmentation of force could be proven, which we do

not decide a sufficient cause of restitution. Moodie v. The Sloop Phoebe Ann , 2 Dall . Rep . 319 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 139.

The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States extends to a final judgment or

decree in any suit in the highest court of the United States, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, and the judgment or decree is against the validity of the right claimed under the treaty ; and such

judgment may be re-examined by writ of error, in the same manner as if rendered in a circuit court. Martin v. Hunter's lessee, 1 Wheat. 104 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 575.

By the treaty with France of 1778, articles 17 and 22, the subjects of France had a right to equip and arm their vessels in the ports of the United States, to bring in their prizes and depart with them, without

interference by the courts of the United States. Bee's Admiralty Reports, 40, 43.

B

(15)

14

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Deputy from the state of Pennsylvania to the General Congress, and President of the Convention of said state ; Silas Deane, late Deputy from the state of Connecticut to the said Congress, and Arthur Lee, Councellor at Law ; the said respective plenipotentiaries after exchanging their powers, and after mature deliberation , have concluded and agreed upon the following articles.

ARTICLE I.

Peace and friendship between the two nations.

There shall be a firm , inviolable and universal peace, and a true and sincere friendship between the Most Christian King, his heirs and successors, and the United States of America ; and the subjects of the Most Christian King and of the said States ; and between the countries, islands, cities and towns, situate under the jurisdiction of the Most Christian King and of the said United States, and the people and inhabitants of every degree, without exception of persons or places ; and the terms hereinafter mentioned shall be perpetual between the Most Christian King, his heirs and successors, and the said United States.

ARTICLE II.

Neither party to grant favors
tthoaotthshearlnlantoitons become common to the other party.

The Most Christian King and the United States , engage mutually not
to grant any particular favour to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same favour, freely, if the concession
was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation , if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE III.

King of France entitled to the
isnatmhee pUrniivtileedges States as the most favored nations.

The subjects of the Most Christian King shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities, or towns, of the United States, or any of them, no other, or greater duties, or imposts, of what nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called , than those which the nations most favoured are or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, whether in passing from one port in the said states to another, or in going to and from the same, from and to any part of the world, which the said nations do or shall enjoy.

ARTICLE IV.

Citizens of the
tUh.eSs.aemnetitplrievdit-o leges in the dominions of France, as the most favored nations.

The subjects, people and inhabitants of the said United States, and each of them , shall not pay in the ports, havens, roads, isles, cities and places under the domination of his Most Christian Majesty, in Europe, any other, or greater duties or imposts, of what nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called, than those which the most favoured
nations are or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, whether in passing from one port in the said dominions, in Europe, to another, or in going to and from the same, from and to any part of the world, which the said nations do or shall enjoy.

ARTICLE V.

Particular exemption.

In the above exemption is particularly comprised, the imposition of one hundred sols per ton , established in France on foreign ships ; unless when the ships of the United States shall load with the merchandize of France for another port of the same dominion , in which case the said ships shall pay the duty above mentioned so long as other nations the most favoured shall be obliged to pay it. But it is understood that the
said United States, or any of them, are at liberty when they shall judg it proper, to establish a duty equivalent in the same case.

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Unis aïant, de leur coté, munis de leurs pleins pouvoirs les S. Benjamin Franklin, Député au Congrès Général de la part de l'Etat de Pensylvanie, et Président de la Convention du d: Etat, Silas Deane ci-devant Député de l'Etat de Connecticut, et Arthur Lée, Conseiller ès Loix, les d: plénipotentiaires respectifs après l'échange de leurs pouvoirs et après mure déliberation ont conclu et arrêté les points et articles suivans.

ARTICLE I.

Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle et une amitié vraie et sincère entre Le Roi très Chrétien ses héritiers et successeurs, et entre les
Etats Unis de l'Amérique ainsi qu'entre les sujets de sa Majesté très Chretienne et ceux des dits Etats, comme aussi entre les peuples, isles, villes et places situés sous la jurisdiction du Roi très Chretien et des dits Etats Unis, et entre leurs peuples et habitans de toutes les classes, sans aucune exception de personnes et de lieux ; les conditions mentionnées au present traité seront perpetuelles et permanentes entre Le Roi très Chretien, ses héritiers et successeurs , et les dits Etats Unis.

ARTICLE II.

Le Roi très Chretien et les Etats Unis s'engagent mutuellement à

n'accorder aucune faveur particuliere à d'autres nations, en fait de com-

merce et de navigation , qui ne devienne ausitót commune à l'autre partie,

et celle-ci jouira de cette faveur gratuitement, si la concession est gra-

tuite, ou en accordant la même compensation, si la concession est conditionnelle .

ARTICLE III .

Les sujets du Roi très Chretien ne païeront dans les ports, havres, rades, contrées , isles, cités et lieux des Etats Unis ou d'aucun d'entr'eux , d'autres ni plus grands droits ou impôts, de quelque nature qu'ils puissent être, et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont, ou seront tenues de païer ; Et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertés, priviléges, immunités et exemtions en fait de négoce, navigation et commerce, soit en passant d'un port des dits Etats à un autre ; soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit, dont les do nations jouissent ou jouiront.
ARTICLE IV.

Les sujets, peuples et habitans des de Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux

ne païeront dans les ports, havres, rades, isles, villes et places de la domination de sa Majesté très Chretienne en Europe d'autres ni plus grands droits ou impots de quelque nature qu'ils puissent être et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir que les nations les plus favorisées sont , ou seront tenues de païer, et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertés, priviléges, immunités et exemtions en fait de négoce, navigation et commerce soit en passant d'un port à un autre des dits Etats du Roi très

Chretien en Europe, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit, dont les nations susd

jouissent ou jouiront.

ARTICLE V.

Dans l'exemtion ci-dessus est nommément compris l'imposition de cent sous par tonneau établie en France sur les navires étrangers, si ce n'est lorsque les navires des Etats Unis chargeront des marchandises de France, dans un port de France, pour un autre port de la même domination , auquel cas les de navires des de Etats Unis acquiteront le droit dont il s'agit aussi long tems que les autres nations les plus favorisées seront obligées de l'acquiter. Bien entendu qu'il sera libre aux dits Etats Unis, ou à aucun d'iceux d'établir, quand ils le jugeront àpropos , un droit equivalent à celui dont il est question pour le même cas pour lequel il est établi dans les ports de sa Majesté très Chretienne.

159

16

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

France to protect vessels of citizens of the United States in her jurisdic-
ttihoenm, twohreenstcoarpe. tured, and to convoy vessels
in certain cases.

ARTICLE VI.
The Most Christian King shall endeavour by all the means in his power to protect and defend all vessels and the effects belonging to the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, being in his ports, havens, or roads, or on the seas near to his countries, islands, cities or towns, and to recover and restore to the right owners, their agent or attornies, all such vessels and effects, which shall be taken within his jurisdiction ; and the ships of war of his Most Christian Ma-
jesty, or any convoy sailing under his authority, shall upon all occasions take under their protection, all vessels belonging to the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, and holding the same course, or going the same way, and shall defend such vessels as long as they hold the same course, or go the same way, against all attacks, force and violence, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend the vessels belonging to the subjects of the Most Christian King.

ARTICLE VII.

United States In like manner the said United States and their ships of war, sailing to do the same. under their authority, shall protect and defend, conformable to the tenor
of the preceding article, all the vessels and effects belonging to the subjects of the Most Christian King, and use all their endeavours to recover, and cause to be restored, the said vessels and effects that shall have been taken within the jurisdiction of the said United States, or any of them .
ARTICLE VIII.

The King of

The Most Christian King will employ his good offices and interposi-

France to aid tion with the King or Emperor of Morocco or Fez, the regencies of

tmhaekUe.tSretaattieess to Algier, Tunis, and Tripoli, or with any of them ; and also with every with the Bar- other Prince, State or Power, of the coast of Barbary, in Africa, and bary powers. the subjects of the said King, Emperor, States and Powers, and each

of them, in order to provide as fully and efficaciously as possible for the

benefit, conveniency and safety of the said United States, and each of

them, their subjects, people and inhabitants, and their vessels and effects

against all violence, insult, attacks, or depredations, on the part of the

said Princes, and States of Barbary, or their subjects.

ARTICLE IX.

Subjects of either party
shall not fish in the dominions of the other.

The subjects, inhabitants, merchants, commanders of ships , masters and mariners of the states, provinces and dominions of each party respectively shall abstain and forbear to fish in all places possessed, or which shall be possessed by the other party ; the Most Christian King's subjects shall not fish in the havens, bays, creeks, roads, coasts or places, which the said United States hold, or shall hereafter hold , and in like manner the subjects, people and inhabitants of the said United States, shall not fish in the havens, bays, creeks, roads, coasts or places, which the Most Christian King possesses, or shall hereafter possess ; and if any ship or vessel shall be found fishing contrary to the tenor of this treaty, the said ship or vessel, with its lading, proof being made thereof, shall be confiscated ; it is however understood that the exclusion stipulated in the present article, shall take place only so long, and so far as the Most Christian King, or the United States, shall not in this respect have granted an exemption to some other nation .

ARTICLE X. The United States, their citizens and inhabitants shall never disturb the subjects of the Most Christian King in the enjoyment and exercise

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

17

ARTICLE VI
Le Roi très Chretien fera usage de tous les moïens qui sont en son pouvoir, pour protéger et défendre tous les vaisseaux et effets apartenants, aux sujets, peuples et habitans des dits Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux qui seront dans ses ports, havres, ou rades, ou dans les mers près de ses pays, contrées, isles, villes et places, et fera tous ses efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux propriétaires légitimes, leurs agens ou mandataires, tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans l'étendue de sa jurisdiction : Et les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majesté très Chretienne ou les convois quelconques faisant voile sous son autorité, prendront, en toute occasion, sous leur protection tous les vaisseaux apartenants aux sujets, peuples et habitans des de Etats Unis ou d'aucun d'iceux, les quels tiendront le meme cours, et feront la même route, et ils défendront les dits vaisseaux aussi longtems qu'ils tiendront le même cours et suivront la meme route, contre toute attaque force ou violence de la même manière qu'ils sont tenus de défendre et de protéger les vaisseaux appartenans aux sujets de sa Majesté très Chretienne.
ARTICLE VII.
Pareillement les dits Etats Unis et leurs vaisseaux de guerre faisant vcile sous leur autorité protégeront et défendront conformement au contenu de l'art précédent, tous les vaisseaux et effets apartenants aux sujets du Roi très Chretien, et feront tous leurs efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer les dits vaisseaux et effets qui auront été pris dans l'étendue de la jurisdiction des dits Etats et de chacun d'iceux .
ARTICLE VIII.
Le Roi très Chretien emploïera ses bons offices et son entremise auprès des Roi ou Empereur de Maroc ou Fez, des Regences d'Alger, Tunis et Tripoli, ou auprès aucune d'entr elles ainsi qu' auprès de tout autre Prince, Etat, ou Puissance des côtes de Barbarie en Affrique et des sujets des de Roi, Empereur , Etats et Puissance et de chacun d'iceux à l'effet de pourvoir aussi pleinement et aussi efficacement qu'il sera possible à l'avantage commodité et sûreté des dits Etats Unis et de chacun d'iceux, ainsi que de leurs sujets, peuples et habitans leurs vaisseaux et effets contre toute violence, insulte, attaque ou déprédations de la part des d? Princes et Etats Barbaresques ou de leurs sujets.
ARTICLE IX .
Les sujets, habitans, marchands, commandans des navires, maitres et gens de mer, des etats, provinces et domaines des deux parties, s'abstiendront et éviteront reciproquement de pêcher dans toutes les places possédées, ou qui seront possedées par l'autre partie. Les sujets de sa Majesté très Chretienne ne pêcheront pas dans les havres, bayes, criques, rades, côtes et places que les dits Etats Unis, possédent ou posséderont à l'avenir ; et de la mene manière les sujets, peuples et habitans des d Etats Unis ne pêcheront pas dans les havres, bayes, criques, rades, côtes et places que sa Majesté très Chretienne posséde actuellement ou possédera à l'avenir, et si quelque navire ou batiment étoit surpris pêchant en violation du present traité, le dit navire ou batiment et sa cargaison seront confisqués après que la preuve en aura été faite düement. Bien entendu que l'exclusion stipuleé dans le present article n'aura lieu qu'autant, et si longtems que le Roi et les Etats Unis n'auront point accordé à cet egard d'exception à quelque nation que ce puisse être

ARTICLE X.

Les Etats Unis, leurs citoïens et habitans ne troubleront jamais les

sujets du Roi très Chretien dans la jouissance et exercice du droit de

VOL. VIII.

3

B2

18

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Citizens of U. of the right of fishing on the banks of Newfoundland, nor in the indefi-

S. shall not dis tFurrabncsuebijnectthseiorf
right of fishing on banks of Newfoundland.

nite and exclusive right which belongs to them on that part of the coast of that island which is designed by the treaty of Utrecht, nor in the rights relative to all, and each of the isles which belong to his Most
Christian Majesty, the whole conformable to the true sense of the treaties of Utrecht and Paris.

(a) ARTICLE XI.

Citizens of U. The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States, or any one

S. exempted from droit d'au-

of them, shall not be reputed aubains in France, and consequently shall

baine, and may be exempted from the droit d'aubaine, or other similar duty under what

dispose of their name soever. They may by testament, donation, or otherwise, dispose estate.
of their goods, moveable and immoveable, in favour of such persons as

to them shall seem good, and their heirs, subjects of the said United

States, residing whether in France or elsewhere, may succeed them ab

intestat, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturalization, and

without having the effect of this concession contested or impeded under

pretext of any rights or prerogative of provinces, cities, or private per-

sons ; and the said heirs, whether such by particular title, or ab intestat, shall be exempt from all duty called droit de detraction, or other duty

of the same kind, saving nevertheless the local rights or duties as much,

and as long as similar ones are not established by the United States, or

Subjects of France have similar privi-
leges.

any of them. The subjects of the Most Christian King shall enjoy on their part in all the dominions of the said States, an entire and perfect reciprocity relative to the stipulations contained in the present article, but it is at the same time agreed that its contents shall not affect the

laws made, or that may be made hereafter in France against emigra-

(a) The two following Articles were originally agreed to, but afterwards rescinded ; to wit :
ARTICLE XI.
It is agreed and concluded that there shall never be any duty imposed on the exportation of the melasses that may be taken by the subjects of any of the United States, from the islands of America which belong, or may hereafter appertain to his Most Christian Majesty.
ARTICLE XII.
In compensation of the exemption stipulated by the preceding article, it is agreed and concluded, that there shall never be any duties imposed on the exportation of any kind of merchandize which the subjects of his Most Christian Majesty may take from the countries and possessions, present or future, of any of the Thirteen United States, for the use of the islands which shall furnish melasses.

Act of France rescinding the foregoing articles :

The General Congress of the United States of North America, having represented to the King that the execution of the eleventh article of the treaty of Amity and Commerce, signed the sixth of February last, might be productive of inconveniences ; and having therefore desired the suppression of this article, consenting in return that the twelfth article shall likewise be considered of no effect : His Majesty in order to give a new proof of his affection, as also of his desire to consolidate the union and good correspondence established between the two States, has been pleased to consider their representations : His Majesty has consequently declared , and does declare by these presents , that he consents to the suppres sion of the eleventh and twelfth articles aforementioned, and that his intention is , that they be considered as having never been comprehended in the treaty signed the sixth of February last.

Done at Versailles the first day of the month of September, one thousand seven hundred and

seventy - eight.

GRAVIER DE VERGENNES.

Act of the United States rescinding the foregoing articles :

DÉCLARATION .

The Most Christian King having been pleased to regard the representations made to him by the Gene-

ral Congress of North America, relating to the eleventh article of the treaty of commerce, signed the

sixth of February, in the present year ; and his majesty having therefore consented that the said article

should be suppressed, on condition that the twelfth article of the same treaty be equally regarded as of

none effect ; the abovesaid General Congress hath declared on their part, and do declare , that they con-

sent to the suppression ofthe eleventh and twelfth articles of the above- mentioned treaty , and that their

intention is, that these articles be regarded as having never been comprised in the treaty signed the sixth

of February. In faith whereof, & c.

B. FRANKLIN ,

ARTHUR LEE,

JOHN ADAMS.

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

19

peche sur les bancs de Terre neuve, non plus que dans la jouissance indéfinie et exclusive qui leur apartient sur la partie des côtes de cette isle, designée dans le traite d'Utrecht, ni dans les droits relatifs à toutes et chacune des isles qui appartiennent à sa Majesté très Chretienne ; le tout conformement au véritable sens des traités d'Utrecht et de Paris.

(a) ARTICLE XI.
Les sujets et habitans des dits Etats Unis ou de l'un d'eux ne seront point reputés aubains en France, et conséquemment seront exemts du droit d'aubaine ou autre droit semblable quelque nom qu'il puisse avoir ; pourront disposer par testament, donation, ou autrement de leurs biens
meubles et immeubles en faveur de telles personnes que bon leur semblera ; et leurs héritiers, sujets des dits Etats Unis, residans soit en France soit ailleurs, pourront leur succéder ab intestat, sans qu'ils aïent besoin d'obtenir des lettres de naturalité, et sans que l'effet de cette concession leur puisse être contesté ou empêché sous pretexte de quelques
droits ou prérogatives des provinces villes ou personnes privées. Et seront les dits héritiers soit à titre particulier soit ab intestat exemts de tout droit de détraction ou autre droit de ce genre ; sauf néanmoins les droits locaux tant, et si longtems, qu'il n'en sera point etabli de pareils par les dits Etats Unis ou aucun d'iceux. Les sujets du Roi très Chretien jouiront de leur côté dans tous les domaines des dits Etats d'une entière et parfaite reciprocité relativement aux stipulations renfermées dans le present article. Mais il est convenu en même tems que son contenu ne portera aucune atteinte aux loix promulguées en France contre les émigrations, ou qui pourront être promulguées dans la suite ,
(a) Les deux articles suivans avaient été originairement convenus, mais ils ont été depuis revoqués , savoir :
ARTICLE XI.
Il est convenu et arrêté qu'il ne sera jamais imposé aucun droit sur l'exportation des melasses qui pourront être tirées par les sujets d'aucun des Etats Unis des isles d'Amérique qui appartiennent ou pourront apartenir à sa Majesté très Chretienne.
ARTICLE XII.
En compensation de l'exemtion stipulée par l'article précédent, il est convenu et arrêté qu'il ne sera jamais imposé aucun droit sur l'exportation d'aucune espèce de denrées et marchandises que les sujets de sa Majesté très Chretienne pourront tirer des pays ou possessions actuelles ou futures d'aucun des Treize Etats Unis pour l'usage des isles qui fournissent les melasses.
Acte de la France révoquant les articles précédens. Le Congrès Général des Etats Unis de l'Amérique Septentrionale ayant representé au Roi que l'éxécution de l'article onze du traité d'Amitié et de Commerce, signé le six du mois de Fevrier dernier, pourroit entrainer des inconvenients après soi, et ayant desiré en conséquence que cet article demeurât suprimé; consentant en échange que l'article douze soit également regardé comme non avenu, sa Majesté, pour donner aux Etats Unis de l'Amérique Septentrionale une nouvelle preuve de son affection, ainsi que de son desir de consolider l'union et la bonne correspondance etablies entre les deux Etats, a bien voulu avoir égard à leurs représentations ; En consequence sa Majesté à déclaré et déclare par les présentes, qu'elle consent à la suppression des articles onze et douze susmentionnés, et que son intention est, qu'ils soient regardés comme n'ayant jamais êté compris dans le traité signé le six Fevrier dernier.
FAIT à Versailles le premier jour du mois de Septembre mil sept cent soixante et dix-huit.
GRAVIER DE VERGENNES.
Acte des Etats Unis révoquant les articles précédens. DÉCLARATION .
Le Roi très Chretien ayant bien voulu avoir égard aux representations que lui a faites le Congrès Géné ral de l'Amerique Septentrionale, relativement à l'article 11 du traité de commerce, signé le 6 Février de la presente année ; et S. M. ayant consenti en consequence que le dit article demeurât supprimé à condition que l'article 12 du même traité fût également regardé comme non avenu ; le Congrès Général a déclaré son côté et déclare qu'il consent à la suppression des articles 11 et 12 susmentionnés, et son intention est, qu'ils soient regardés comme n'ayant jamais été compris dans le traite signé le six Février dernier.
B. FRANKLIN, ARTHUR LEE, JOHN ADAMS.

20

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

tions which shall remain in all their force and vigour, and the United States on their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to enact such laws, relative to that matter, as to them shall seem proper.

ARTICLE XII.

Ships suspect.
peadsssphaolrltsexahnidbit certificates.

The merchant ships of either of the parties which shall be making into a port belonging to the enemy of the other ally, and concerning whose voyage, and the species of goods on board her, there shall be just grounds of suspicion, shall be obliged to exhibit as well upon the high seas, as in the ports and havens, not only her passports, but likewise certificates, expressly shewing that her goods are not of the number of those which have been prohibited as contraband.

ARTICLE XIII.

Howto pro ceed in case of contraband goods.

If by the exhibiting of the abovesaid certificates, the other party dis cover there are any of those sorts of goods which are prohibited and declared contraband, and consigned for a port under the obedience of his enemies, it shall not be lawful to break up the hatches of such ship, or to open any chest, coffers, packs, casks, or any other vessels found therein, or to remove the smallest parcels of her goods, whether such ship belongs to the subjects of France, or the inhabitants of the said

United States, unless the lading be brought on shore in the presence of the officers of the court of admiralty, and an inventory thereof made ; but there shall be no allowance to sell, exchange or alienate the same, in any manner, untill after that due and lawful process shall have been had against such prohibited goods, and the court of admiralty shall by a sentence pronounced have confiscated the same ; saving always as well the ship itself as any other goods found therein, which by this treaty are to be esteemed free, neither may they be detained on pretence of their being as it were infected by the prohibited goods, inuch less shall they be confiscated , as lawful prize : but if not the whole cargo, but only part thereof shall consist of prohibited or contraband goods, and the commander of the ship shall be ready and willing to deliver them to the captor, who has discovered them, in such case, the captor having received those goods, shall forthwith discharge the ship , and not hinder her by any means, freely to prosecute the voyage on which she was bound. But in case the contraband merchandises cannot be all received

on board the vessel of the captor, then the captor may, notwithstanding

the offer of delivering him the contraband goods, carry the vessel into the nearest port agreeable to what is above directed.

ARTICLE XIV.

Goods found in an enemy's ship may be confiscated, unless put on board before de-
colrawraittihoinnotfwwoar, months after.

On the contrary it is agreed, that whatever shall be found to be laden by the subjects and inhabitants of either party on any ship belonging to the enemys of the other, or to their subjects , the whole although it be not of the sort of prohibited goods, may be confiscated in the same manner as if it belonged to the enemy, except such goods and merchandizes as were put on board such ship before the declaration of war, or
even after such declaration , if so be it were done without knowledge of

such declaration , so that the goods of the subjects and people of either

party, whether they be of the nature of such as are prohibited or otherwise, which as is aforesaid, were put on board any ship belonging to an enemy before the war or after the declaration of the same, without the

knowledge of it, shall no ways be liable to confiscation, but shall well

and truely be restored without delay to the proprietors demanding the same ; but so as that if the said merchandizes be contraband it shall not

be any ways lawful to carry them afterwards to any ports belonging to

the enemy. The two contracting parties agree, that the term of two

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

21

les quelles demeureront dans toute leur force et vigueur. Les Etats Unis de leur côté ou aucun d'entr' eux, seront libres de statüer sur cette matière telle loi qu'ils jugeront àpropos.

ARTICLE XII.
Les navires marchands des deux parties qui seront destinés pour des ports appartenants à une puissance ennemie de l'autre allié et dont le voïage ou la nature des marchandises dont ils seront chargés donneroit de justes soupçons, seront tenus d'exhiber soit en haute mer, soit dans les ports et havres, non seulement leurs passeports mais encore les certificats qui constateront expressement que leur chargement n'est pas de la qualité de ceux qui sont prohibés comme contrebande.
ARTICLE XIII.
Si l'exhibition des dits certificats conduit à découvrir que le navire porte des marchandises prohibées et reputées contrebande, consignées pour un port ennemi, il ne sera pas permis de briser les écoutilles des dits navires, ni d'ouvrir aucune caisse, coffre, malle, ballots, tonneaux et autres caisses qui s'y trouveront, ou d'en déplacer et détourner la moindre partie des marchandises soit que le navire apartienne aux sujets du Roi très Chretien ou aux habitans des Etats Unis, jusqu' a ce que la cargaison ait été mise à terre en presence des officiers des cours d'amirauté, et que l'inventaire en ait ete fait ; mais on ne permettra pas de vendre, échanger ou aliéner les navires ou leur cargaison en manierè quelconque, avant que le proces ait été fait et parfait legalement pour déclarer la contrebande, et que les cours d'amirauté auront prononcé leur confiscation par jugement, sans prejudice néanmoins des navires, ainsi que des marchandises qui en vertu du traité doivent être censées libres. Il ne sera pas permis de retenir ces marchandises sous pretexte qu'elles ont été entachées par les marchandises de contrebande et bien moins encore de les confisquer comme des prises légales. Dans le cas ou une partie seulement et non la totalité du chargement consisteroit en marchandises de contrebande, et que le commandant du vaisseau consente à les délivrer au corsaire qui les aura découvertes, àlors le capitaine qui aura fait la prise, après avoir reçu ces marchandises, doit incontinent relâcher le navire et ne doit l'empêcher en aucune manière de continuer son voïage. Mais dans le cas où les marchandises de contrebande ne pourroient pas être toutes chargées sur le vaisseau capteur, àlors le capitaine du de vaisseau sera le maitre, malgré l'offre de remettre la contrebande, de conduire le patron dans le plus prochain port, conformement à ce qui est préscrit plus haut.
ARTICLE XIV.
On est convenu au contraire que tout ce qui se trouvera chargé par les sujets respectifs sur des navires apartenants aux ennemis de l'autre partie ou à leurs sujets sera confisqué sans distinction des marchandises prohibées ou non prohibées, ainsi et de même que si elles appartenoient à l'ennemi , à l'exception toute fois, des effets et marchandises qui auront été mis à bord des dits navires avant la déclaration de guerre, ou même après la de déclaration, si au moment du chargement on a pu l'ignorer, de manière que les marchandises des sujets des deux parties, soit qu'elles se trouvent du nombre de celles de contrebande ou autrement, les quelles comme il vient d'être dit, auront été mises à bord d'un vaisseau apartenant à l'ennemi, avant la guerre ou même après la de déclaration, lorsqu'on l'ignoroit, ne seront en aucune manière , sujetes à confiscation, mais seront fidèlement et de bonne foi rendües sans delai à leurs propriétaires, qui les reclameront ; bien entendu néanmoins qu'il ne soit pas permis de portee dans les ports ennemis les marchandises qui seront de contrebande. Les deux parties contractantes conviennent que le

22

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

months being passed after the declaration of war, their respective sub-
jects, from whatever part of the world they come, shall not plead the ignorance mentioned in this article.

ARTICLE XV.

Ships of war and privateers to do no injury to either party;
if they do, to be punished and make reparation to the party
injured.

And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of the subjects and inhabitants of both parties, that they suffer no injury by the men of war or privateers of the other party, all the commanders of the ships of his Most Christian Majesty and of the said United States, and all their subjects and inhabitants, shall be forbid doing any injury or damage to the other side ; and if they act to the contrary they shall be punished, and shall moreover be bound to make satisfaction for all matter of damage, and the interest thereof, by reparation , under the pain and obligation of their person and goods.

ARTICLE XVI.

All ships and merchandize rescued out of
the hands of pirates to be re-
stored .

All ships and merchandizes of what nature soever, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state, and shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of that port, in order to be restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof.

ARTICLE XVII.

Prizes may be cpaorrtrsieodfienittohterhe party.
No shelter shall be given to the captors of prizes from either party.

It shall be lawful for the ships of war of either party, and privateers,
freely to carry whithersoever they please, the ships and goods taken from their enemies, without being obliged to pay any duty to the officers of the admiralty or any other judges ; nor shall such prizes be arrested or seized when they come to and enter the ports of either party ; nor shall the searchers or other officers of those places search the same, or make examination concerning the lawfulness of such prizes ; but they may hoist sail at any time, and depart and carry their prizes to the places expressed in their commissions, which the commanders of such
ships of war shall be obliged to show : on the contrary, no shelter or refuge shall be given in their ports to such as shall have made prize of the subjects, people or property of either of the parties ; but if such shall come in, being forced by stress of weather , or the danger of the sea, all proper means shall be vigorously used , that they go out and retire from thence as soon as possible.

ARTICLE XVIII.

In case of ship-
wreck , relief to be afforded.

If any ship belonging to either of the parties, their people or subjects, shall within the coasts or dominions of the other , stick upon the sands,
or be wrecked, or suffer any other damage, all friendly assistance and relief shall be given to the persons shipwrecked , or such as shall be in danger thereof. And letters of safe conduct shall likewise be given to

them for their free and quiet passage from thence and the return of every one to his own country.

ARTICLE XIX .

When vessels by stress of weather, & c. are forced into
poris , & c . they
schdalalnbdepperromtietc.t ted to depart.

In case the subjects and inhabitants of either party, with their ship. ping, whether publick and of war, or private and of merchants , be forced through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, or any other urgent necessity for seeking of shelter and harbour , to retreat and
enter into any of the rivers, bays, roads or ports belonging to the other party, they shall be received and treated with all humanity and kindness, and enjoy all friendly protection and help ; and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with victuals and all things needful for the sustenance of their persons, or

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

23

terme de deux mois, passés depuis la déclaration de guerre, leurs sujets respectifs, de quelque partie du monde qu'ils viennent ne pourront plus alléguer l'ignorance dont il est question dans le présent article.
ARTICLE XV.
Et afin de pourvoir plus efficacement à la sûreté des sujets des deux parties contractantes, pour qu'il ne leur soit fait aucun préjudice par les vaisseaux de guerre de l'autre partie ou par des armateurs particuliers, il sera fait défense à tous capitaines des vaisseaux de sa Majesté très Chretienne et des dits Etats Unis, et à tous leurs sujets de faire aucun dommage ou insulte à ceux de l'autre partie, et au cas où ils y contreviendroient, ils en seront punis ; et, de plus, ils seront tenus et obligés en leurs personnes et en leurs biens de réparer tous les dommages et intérêts.
ARTICLE XVI.
Tous vaisseaux et marchandises de quelque nature que ce puisse être, lors qu'ils auront été enlevés des mains de quelques pirates en pleine mer, seront amenés dans quelque port de l'un des deux Etats, et seront remis à la garde des officiers du dit port àfin d'être rendus, en entier, a leur veritable propriétaire, aussitôt qu'il aura düement et sufisament fait conster de sa propriété.
ARTICLE XVII.
Les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majesté très Chretienne et ceux des Etats Unis, de même que ceux que leurs sujets auront armés en guerre, pourront, en toute liberté, conduire où bon leur semblera les prises qu'ils auront faites sur leurs ennemis, sans être obligés à aucuns droits , soit des sieurs amiraux ou de l'amirauté où d'aucuns autres, sans qu'aussi les dits vaisseaux ou les de prises, entrant dans les havres ou ports de sa Majesté très Chretienne ou des dits Etats Unis, puissent être arrêtés ou saisis, ni que les officiers des lieux puissent prendre connoissance de la validité des de prises, les quelles pourront sortir et être conduites franchement et en toute liberté, aux lieux portés par les commissions dont les capitaines des dits vaisseaux seront obligés de faire aparoir. Et au contraire, ne sera donné asile ni retraite dans leurs ports ou havres à ceux qui auront fait des prises sur les sujets de sa Majesté ou des dits Etats Unis ; et s'ils sont forcés d'y entrer par tempête ou peril de la mer, on les fera sortir le plustôt qu'il sera possible.
ARTICLE XVIII.
Dans le cas où un vaisseau apartenant à l'un des deux Etats ou à leurs sujets, aura échoué, fait naufrage ou souffert quelqu' autre dommage sur les côtes ou sous la domination de l'une des deux parties, il sera donné toute aide et assistance amiable aux personnes naufragées ou qui se trouvent en danger, et il leur sera accordé des sauf conduits pour assûrer leur passage et leur retour dans leur patrie.

ARTICLE XIX .
Lorsque les sujets et habitans de l'une des deux parties avec leurs vaisseaux soit publics et de guerre, soit particuliers et marchands, seront forcés par une tempête, par la poursuite des pirates et des ennemis, ou par quelqu' autre nécessité urgente, de chercher refuge et un abri, de se retirer et entrer dans quelqu' une des rivières, bayes, rades ou ports de l'une des deux parties, ils seront reçus et traités avec humanité, et jouiront de toute amitié, protection et assistance, et il leur sera permis de se pourvoir de raffraichissemens, de vivres, et de toutes choses nécessaires pour leur subsistance, pour la reparation de leurs vaisseaux, et

24

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

reparation of their ships, and conveniency of their voyage ; and they shall no ways be detained or hindered from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hindrance.

ARTICLE XX.

In case of war,
six months shall be allowed to citizens ofeach
party residing in the other's dominion to sell and remove their effects.

For the better promoting of commerce on both sides, it is agreed, that if a war shall break out between the said two nations, six months after the proclamation of war, shall be allowed to the merchants in the
cities and towns where they live for selling and transporting their goods and merchandizes ; and if any thing be taken from them, or any injury be done them within that term by either party, or the people or subjects of either, full satisfaction shall be made for the same.

ARTICLE XXI.

Citizens of

No subjects of the Most Christian King shall apply for or take any

neither party

shall take com- commission, or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act

missions or let- as privateers against the said United States, or any of them, or against

ters of marque the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of

forrosmtaatenywiptrhince them, or against the property of any of the inhabitants of any of them, whom the other from any Prince or State with which the said United States shall be at

is at war, to act war ; nor shall any citizen, subject, or inhabitant of the said United as privateers. States, or any of them, apply for or take any commission or letters of

marque for arming any ship or ships, to act as privateers against the subjects of the Most Christian King, or any of them, or the property of any of them, from any Prince or State with which the said King shall be at war ; and if any person of either nation shall take such commis-

sions or letters of marque, he shall be punished as a pirate.

ARTICLE XXII.

Foreign priva-
teedertso nboetfaitltleodw. out, or to sell their prizes in the ports of either party.

It shall not be lawful for any foreign privateers, not belonging to subjects of the Most Christian King, nor citizens of the said United States, who have commissions from any other Prince or State in enmity with either nation, to fit their ships in the ports of either the one or the other of the aforesaid parties, to sell what they have taken , or in any other manner whatsoever to exchange their ships, merchandizes, or any other lading ; neither shall they be allowed even to purchase victuals, except such as shall be necessary for their going to the next port of that Prince or State from which they have commissions.

ARTICLE XXIII.

Liberty for either party to
ttiroandeatwwitahrawintah. the other.

It shall be lawful for all and singular the subjects of the Most Christian King, and the citizens, people and inhabitants of the said United States, to sail with their ships with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made, who are the proprietors of the merchandizes

Jaden thereon , from any port to the places of those who now are or

hereafter shall be at enmity with the Most Christian King, or the United States. It shall likewise be lawful for the subjects and inhabitants

aforesaid, to sail with the ships and merchandizes aforementioned , and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports and

havens of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any

opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places

of the enemy aforementioned to neutral places, but also from one place

belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging to an enemy, whe

ther they be under the jurisdiction of the same Prince, or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give a freedom to

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

25

pour continuer leur voïage ; le tout moïennant un prix raisonable , et ils ne seront retenus en aucune manière, ni empêchés de sortir des dits ports ou rades, mais pourront se netirer et partir quand, et comme il leur plaira, sans aucun obstacle ni empêchement.

ARTICLE XX.
Afin de promouvoir d'autant mieux le commerce de deux côtés, il est convenu que dans le cas où la guerre surviendroit entre les deux nations susdites, il sera accordé six mois, après la déclaration de guerre, aux marchands dans les villes et cités qu'ils habitent, pour rassembler et transporter les marchandises : et s'il en est enlevé quelque chose ou s'il leur a été fait quelqu' injure durant le terme préscrit ci-dessus , par l'une des deux parties, leurs peuples ou sujets, il leur sera donné à cet égard pleine et entière satisfaction.
ARTICLE XXI.

Aucun sujet du Roi très Chretien ne prendra de commission ou de lettres de marque, pour armer quelque vaisseau ou vaisseaux à l'effet d'agir comme corsaires contre les dits Etats Unis ou quelques uns d'entr' eux, ou contre les sujets, peuples ou habitans d'iceux, ou contre leur propriété ou celle des habitans d'aucun d'entr' eux, de quelque prince que ce soit avec lequel les dits Etats Unis seront en guerre. De même aucun citoïen , sujet, ou habitant des susdits Etats Unis et de quelqu'un d'entr' eux, ne demandera ni n'acceptera aucune commission ou lettres de marque, pour armer quelque vaisseau, ou vaisseaux pour courre sus aux sujets de sa Majesté très Chretienne, ou quelques uns d'entre eux ou leur propriété, de quelque prince ou etat que ce soit avec qui sa d: Majesté se trouvera en guerre ; et si quelqu'un de l'une ou de l'autre nation prenoit de pareilles commissions ou lettres de marque, il sera puni comme pirate.
ARTICLE XXII .
Il ne sera permis à aucun corsaire étranger non apartenant à quelque sujet de sa Majesté très Chretienne ou à un citoïen des dits Etats Unis, lequel aura une commission de la part d'un prince ou d'une puissance en guerre avec l'une des deux nations, d'armer leurs vaisseaux dans les ports de l'une des deux parties, ni d'y vendre les prises qu'il aura faites, ni décharger en autre manière quelconque les vaisseaux, marchandises ou aucune partie de leur cargaison ; il ne sera même pas permis d'acheter d'autres vivres que ceux qui lui seront nécessaires pour se rendre dans le port le plus voisin du prince ou de l'etat dont il tient sa commission.
ARTICLE XXIII.

Il sera permis à tous et un chacun des sujets du Roi très Chretien et

aux citoïens, peuple et habitans des susdits Etats Unis, de naviguer avec

leurs batimens avec toute liberté et sûreté, sans qu'il puisse être fait

d'exception à cet égard, à raison des propriétaires des marchandises

chargées sur les dits batimens venant de quelque port que ce soit, et

destinés pour quelque place d'une puissance actuellement ennemie, ou

qui pourra l'être dans la suite de sa Majesté très Chretienne ou des Etats

Únis. Il sera permis également aux sujets et habitans sus mentionnés

de naviguer avec leurs vaisseaux et marchandises et de frequenter avec

la même liberté et sûreté, les places, ports, et havres des puissances

ennemies des deux parties contractantes ou d'une d'entre elles, sans

opposition ni trouble, et de faire le commerce non seulement directe-

ment des ports de l'ennemi susdit à un port neutre, mais aussi d'un port

ennemi à un autre port ennemi, soit qu'il se trouve sous sa jurisdiction

ou sous celle de plusieurs ; et il est stipulé par le present traité que les

VOL. VIII. 4

C

26

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

Free ships make free
goods, excepting contraband articles.

goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the subjects of either of the confederates, although the whole lading, or any part thereof should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are soldiers and in actual service ofthe enemies.

ARTICLE XXIV.

What goods cshoanltlrbaebadnede. med

This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of
merchandizes, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband, and under this name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended arms, great guns, bombs with the fuzes, and other things belonging to them, cannon ball, gunpowder, match, pikes, swords, lances, spears, halberds, mortars, petards, granades, saltpetre, muskets, musket ball, bucklers, helmets, breast plates, coats of mail, and the like kinds of arms, proper for arming soldiers, musket rests, belts, horses with their furniture, and all other warlike instruments whatever. These merchandizes which follow shall not be reckoned

among contraband or prohibited goods ; that is to say, all sorts of cloths, and all other manufactures woven of any wool , flax, silk, cotton, or any other materials whatever, all kinds of wearing apparel, together with the
species whereof they are used to be made , gold and silver, as well coined as uncoiued, tin, iron , latten , copper, brass, coals ; as also wheat and barley, and any other kind of corn and pulse ; tobacco, and likewise all manner of spices ; salted and smoked flesh, salted fish, cheese and butter, beer, oils, wines, sugars, and all sorts of salts ; and in general all provisions which serve for the nourishment of mankind and the sustenance of life ; furthermore, all kinds of cotton, hemp, flax, tar, pitch, ropes,

cables, sails, sail cloths, anchors and any parts of anchors, also ships' masts, planks, boards and beams of what trees soever ; and all other things proper either for building or repairing ships, and all other goods whatever which have not been worked into the form of any instrument

or thing prepared for war by land or by sea, shall not be reputed con-
traband, much less such as have been already wrought and made up for any other use all which shall be wholly reckoned among free goods ; as likewise all other merchandizes and things which are not compre-

hended and particularly mentioned in the foregoing enumeration of contraband goods ; so that they may be transported and carried in the freest manner by the subjects of both confederates, even to places belonging to an enemy, such towns or places being only excepted, as are at that time besieged , blocked up or invested.

ARTICLE XXV.

Ships and vessels to be furInished with sea letters or pass-
ports and certificates.

To the end that all manner of dissentions and quarrels may be avoided and prevented, on one side and the other, it is agreed, that in case either of the parties hereto should be engaged in war , the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or people of the other ally, must be furnished with sea letters or passports, expressing the name, property and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of the said ship, that it may appear thereby that the ship really and truley belongs to the subjects of one of the parties, which passport shall be made out and granted according to the form annexed to this treaty ; they shall likewise be recalled every year, that is if the ship happens to return home within the space of a year. It is likewise agreed. that such ships being laden are to be provided not only with passports

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE . 1778.

27

Datimens libres assûreront également la liberté des marchandises, et qu'on jugera libres toutes les choses qui se trouveront àbord des navires apartenants aux sujets d'une des parties contractantes, quand même le chargement ou partie d'icelui apartiendroit aux ennemis de l'une des deux ; bien entendu néanmoins que la contrebande sera toujours exceptée. Il est également convenu que cette même liberté s'étendroit aux personnes qui pourroient se trouver àbord du batiment libre, quand même elles seroient ennemies de l'une des deux parties contractantes, et elles ne pourront être enlevées des dits navires, à moins qu'elles ne soient militaires et actuellement au service de l'ennemi.
ARTICLE XXIV.
Cette liberté de navigation et de commerce doit s'étendre sur toutes sortes de marchandises, à l'exception seulement de celles qui sont designées sous le nom de contrebande : Sous ce nom de contrebande ou de marchandises prohibeés , doivent être compris les armes, canons, bombes avec leurs fusées et autres choses y relatives, boulets , poudre à tirer, méches, piques, epées, lances, dards, hallebardes, mortiers, petards, grenades, salpêtre, fusils, balles, boucliers, casques, cuirasses, cote de mailles, et autres armes de cette espèce, propres à armer les soldats, porte-mousqueton, baudriers, chevaux avec leurs equipages, et tous autres instrumens de guerre quelconques. Les marchandises dénommées ci-après ne seront pas comprises parmi la contrebande ou choses prohibées, savoir : toutes sortes de draps et toutes autres étoffes de laine, lin, soye, coton ou d'autres matieres quelconques ; toutes sortes de vétemens avec les étoffes dont on a coutume de les faire, l'or et l'argent monnoïé ou non, l'étain , le fer , laiton , cuivre, airain, charbons , de même que le froment et l'orge, et toute autre sorte de bleds et légumes ; le tabac et toutes les sortes d'épiceries, la viande salée et fumée, poisson sallé, fromage et beurre, bierre, huiles, vins, sucres, et toute espece de sel, et en général toutes provisions servant pour la nourriture de l'homme et pour le soutien de la vie. De plus, toutes sortes de coton , de chanvre, lin, goudron, poix, cordes, cables, voiles, toiles à voiles, ancres, parties d'ancres, mats, planches, madriers, et bois de toute espèce, et toutes autres choses propres à la construction et réparation des vaisseaux, et autres matieres quelconques qui n'ont pas la forme d'un instrument préparé pour la guerre par terre comme par mer, ne seront pas reputées contrebande, et encore moins celles qui sont déja preparées pour quelqu' autre usage : Toutes les choses dénommées ci-dessus, doivent être comprises parmi les marchandises libres, de même que toutes les autres marchandises et effets qui ne sont pas compris et particulierement nommés dans l'énumeration des marchandises de contrebande ; de manière qu'elles pourront être transportées et conduites de la manière la plus libre, par les sujets des deux parties contractantes, dans des places ennemies, à l'exception néanmoins de celles qui se trouveroient actuellement assiégées, bloquées ou investies.
ARTICLE XXV.
Afin d'écarter et de prévenir de part et d'autre toutes discussions et querelles, il a été convenu que dans le cas où l'une des deux parties se trouveroit engagée dans une guerre, les vaisseaux et batimens apartenans aux sujets ou peuple de l'autre allié , devront être pourvus de lettres de mer ou passeports, les quels exprimeront le nom, la propriété et le port du navire, ainsi que le nom et la demeure du maitre ou commandant du dit vaisseau , àfin qu'il aparoisse par là que le même vaisseau apartient réellement et véritablement aux sujets de l'une des deux parties contractantes ; lequel passeport devra être expédié selon le modèle annexé au present traité. Ces passeports devront également être renouvellés chaque année, dans le cas ou le vaisseau retourne chez lui dans l'espace d'une année. Il a été convenu également que les vaisseaux

28

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE . 1778.

as above-mentioned, but also with certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, the place whence the ship sailed , and whither she is bound, that so it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship set sail , in the accustomed form ; and if any one shall think it fit or advisable to express in the said certificates, the person to whom the goods on board belong, he may freely do so.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Vessels com-

The ships of the subjects and inhabitants of either of the parties

ionrgenotnertihnegctohaest ports of either
party, howtobe treated.

coming upon any coasts belonging to either of the said allies, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port and not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, they shall be treated according to the general rules prescribed or to be prescribed, relative to the object in question.

ARTICLE XXVII .

How vessels

If the ships ofthe said subjects , people or inhabitants of either of the

awrheetno bmeettrebayted parties shall be met with, either sailing along the coasts or on the high

ships of war or seas, by any ship of war of the other, or by any privateers , the said ships

privateers.

of war or privateers, for the avoiding of any disorder, shall remain out

of cannon shot, and may send their boats aboard the merchant ship

which they shall so meet with, and may enter her to number of two or

three men only, to whom the master or commander of such ship or

vessel shall exhibit his passport concerning the property of the ship,

made out according to the form inserted in this present treaty, and the ship when she shall have showed such passport, shall be free and at liberty to pursue her voyage, so as it shall not be lawful to molest or

search her in any manner, or to give her chase or force her to quit her intended course.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

No search af-
ter goods are put on board
ships or vessels, unless in case of fraud.

It is also agreed , that all goods when once put on board the ships or vessels of either of the two contracting parties, shall be subject to no farther visitation ; but all visitation or search shall be made beforehand, and all prohibited goods shall be stopped on the spot, before the saine be put on board, unless there are manifest tokens or proofs of fraudulent practice ; nor shall either the persons or goods of the subjects of his Most Christian Majesty or the United States , be put under any arrest or molested by any other kind of embargo for that cause ; and only the subject of that state to whom the said goods have been or shall be prohibited, and who shall presume to sell or alienate such sort of goods, shall be duly punished for the offence.

ARTICLE XXIX.

Consuls, & c.

The two contracting parties grant mutually the liberty of having each

ttohebepoarltlsoowfed in in the ports of the other, consuls, vice- consuls, agents and commissaries,

cach party.

whose functions shall be regulated by a particular agreement.

Free ports.

ARTICLE XXX .
And the more to favor and facilitate the commerce which the subjects of the United States may have with France, the Most Christian King will grant them in Europe one or more free ports, where they may bring and dispose of all the produce and merchandize of the thirteen United States ; and his Majesty will also continue to the subjects of the said states, the free ports which have been and are open in the French islands

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

29

Busmentionnés, dans le cas où ils seroient chargés, devront être pourvus non seulement de passeports, mais aussi de certificats, contenant le détail de la cargaison , le lieu d'où le vaisseau est parti, et la déclaration des marchandises de contrebande qui pourroient se trouver àbord ; lesquels certificats devront être expédiés dans la forme accoutumeé par les officiers du lieu d'où le vaisseau aura fait voile : et s'il étoit jugé utile ou prudent d'exprimer dans les dits passeports, la personne à laquelle les marchandises apartiennent, on pourra le faire librement.
ARTICLE XXVI.
Dans le cas ou les vaisseaux des sujets et habitans de l'une des deux parties contractantes aprocheroient des côtes de l'autre, sans cependant avoir le dessein d'entrer dans le port, ou après être entré, sans avoir le dessein de décharger la cargaison, ou rompre leur charge, on se conduira à leur égard suivant les réglemens généraux préscrits ou à prescrire relativement à l'objet dont il est question.
ARTICLE XXVII.
Lorsqu'un batiment apartenant aux dits sujets, peuple et habitans de l'une des deux parties, sera rencontré navigant le long des côtes ou en pleine mer, par un vaisseau de guerre de l'autre, ou par un armateur, le dit vaisseau de guerre, ou armateur, àfin d'éviter tout désordre, se tiendra hors de la portée du canon, et pourra envoïer sa chaloupe àbord du batiment marchand , et y faire entrer deux ou trois hommes, aux quels le maitre ou commandant du batiment montrera son passeport, le quel devra être conforme à la formule annexeé au present traité, et constatera la propriété du batiment : et après que le dit batiment aura exhibé un pareil passeport, il lui sera libre de continuer son voïage, et il ne sera pas permis de le molester, ni de chercher en aucune manière, de lui donner la chasse, ou de le forcer de quiter la course qu'il s'étoit proposée
ARTICLE XXVIII.
Il est convenu que lorsque les marchandises auront été chargées sur les vaisseaux ou batimens de l'une des deux parties contractantes, elles ne pourront plus être assujeties à aucune visite ; toute visite et recherche devant être faite avant le chargement, et les marchandises prohibées devant être arrêtées et saisies sur la plage avant de pouvoir être embarquées, à moins qu'on n'ait des indices manifestes ou des preuves de versements frauduleux. De même aucun des sujets de sa Majesté très Chrêtienne ou des Etats Unis, ni leurs marchandises, ne pourront être arrêtés ni molestés pour cette cause, par aucune espèce d'embargo ; et les seuls sujets de l'etat, auxquels les d: marchandises auront été prohibées, et qui se seront emancipés à vendre et aliéner de pareilles marchandises, seront düement punis pour cette contravention.
ARTICLE XXIX.
Les deux parties contractantes se sont accordées mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs, des consuls, vice- consuls, agents et commissaires, dont les fonctions seront reglées par une convention particulière.
ARTICLE XXX.
Pour d'autant plus favoriser et faciliter le commerce que les sujets des Etats Unis feront avec la France, le Roi très Chretien leur accordera en Europe un ou plusieurs ports Francs dans lesquels ils pourront amener et débiter toutes les denreés et marchandises provenant des treize Etats Unis ; sa Majesté conservera d'un autre côté , aux sujets des dits Etats, les ports Francs qui ont été, et sont, ouverts dans les isles
c2

30

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE . 1778.

Ratification .

of America : of all which free ports the said subjects of the United States shall enjoy the use, agreable to the regulations which relate to them .
ARTICLE XXXI.
The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months, or sooner if possible.
In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the French and English languages, declaring nevertheless, that the present treaty was originally composed and concluded in the French language, and they have thereto affixed their seals.

DONE at Paris, this sixth day of February, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN , SILAS DEANE , ARTHUR LEE,

(L. S.) (L. S.) (L. S.) (L s.)

TREATY OF COMMERCE WITH FRANCE. 1778.

31

Françoises de l'Amerique. De tous les quels ports Francs les dits sujets des Etats Unis jouiront conformement aux règlemens qui en déterminent l'usage.
ARTICLE XXXI.
Le present traité sera ratifié de part et d'autre, et les ratifications seront echangées dans l'espace de six mois ou plustôt si faire se peut.

In foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles cidessus, tant en langue Françoise qu'en langue Angloise, déclarant néanmoins que le present traité a eté originairement redigé et arrêté en langue Françoise ; et ils y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait à Paris, le sixieme jour du mois de Fevrier, mil sept cent soixante dix-huit.

C. A. GERARD, B. FRANKLIN, SILAS DEANE, ARTHUR LEE,

(L. s.) (L. S. (L. S.) ( L. s. )

TREATY

Of Amity and Commerce between their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, to wit: New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, NewYork, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North- Carolina, South- Carolina, and Georgia. (a)

Oct. 8, 1782.

THEIR High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America ; to wit : New-Hampshire, Massachusetts , Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticutt, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware, Maryland , Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, desiring to ascertain in a permanent and equitable manner, the rules to be observed relative to the commerce and correspondence, which they intend to establish between their respective states, countries and inhabitants, have judged that the said end cannot be better obtained, than by establishing the most perfect equality and reciprocity for the basis of their agreement, and by avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually the sources of debate, embarrassment and discontent ; by leaving also each party at liberty to make, respecting commerce and navigation , such ulterior regulations as it shall find most convenient to itself; and by founding the advantages of commerce solely upon reciprocal utility, and the just rules of free intercourse, reserving withal to each party the liberty of admitting at its pleasure other nations to a participation of the same advantages.

On these principles their said High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands , have named for their plenipotentiaries, from the midst of their assembly, Messieurs, their deputies for the foreign affairs ; and the said United States of America, on their part, have furnished with full powers, Mr. John Adams, late commissioner of the United States of America at the court of Versailles, heretofore delegate in Congress from the state of Massachusetts-Bay, and chief justice of the said state, who have agreed and concluded as follows, to witt :

ARTICLE I.

Peace and
Friendship between the two nations.

There shall be a firm, inviolable and universal peace and sincere friendship, between their High Mightinesses, the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands , and the United States of America, and between the subjects and inhabitants of the said parties, and between the countries, islands, cities and places, situated under the jurisdiction of the said United Netherlands, and the said United States of America, their subjects and inhabitants, of every degree, without exception of persons or places.
ARTICLE II.

The subjects of the said States General of the United Netherlands,

(a) This treaty was ratified on the 22d January, 1783. (32)

TRACTAA
Van Vriendschap en Commercie, tusschen Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden , en de Veree-
nigde Staten van America, te weeten , New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-Island en Providence Plantations, Connecticutt,
New- York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginien, Noord- Carolina, Zuijd- Carolina, en Georgia.
HAAR Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en de Vereenigde Staten van America ; te weeten : New-Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode-Island en Providence Plantations , Connecticutt, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvanien, Delaware, Maryland, Virginien, Noord-Carolina, Zuyd-Carolina, en Georgien, geneegen zynde op een bestendige en billyke wyze te bepalen de regelen, die in acht genomen moeten worden, ten opzigte van de correspondentie en commercie, welke zy verlangen vast te stellen tusschen haare respective landen Staten, onderdanen en ingezeetenen , hebben geoordeelt, dat het gezegde einde niet beeter kan worden bereikt, dan door te stellen tot een bazis van haar verdrag, de volmaekste egaliteit en reciprociteit, en met vermyding van alle die lastige præferentien , dewelke doorgaans de bronäders zyn van twist, verwarring en misnoegen ; door aan iedere party de vryheid te laten, om weegins de commercie en navigatie, verder zulke reglementen te maken, als die voor zig zelven het gevoeglykst zal oordeelen ; en door de voordeelen van commercie, eeniglyk te gronden op weederzyds nut, en de juiste regels van vrye handel over en weer ; reserveerende by dat alles aan iedere parthy de vryheid , om, na des zelfs goedvinden andere natien te admitteeren tot het participeeren aan dezelfde voordeelen.
Op deeze grondbeginzelen hebben voorgemelde Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, tot hunne Plenipotentiarissen, uit het midden hunner vergadering benoemd, de Heeren Derselver gedeputeerden tot de buitenlandsche Saaken ; En de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America van hunne zyde, met volmagt voorsien den Heer John Adams, laatst commissaris van de Vereenigde Staten van America, aan het Hof van Versailles geweezen afgevaardigde op net Congres weegens de staten van Massachusetts-Baay, en opper-regter van den gemelden staat, dewelke zyn overeengekomen, en geaccordeert :
ARTL I.
Daar zal een vaste onverbreekelyke en universeele vreede, en opregte vrienschap zyn, tusschen Haar Hoog Mogende de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en de Vereenigde Staten van America, en de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de voornoemde parthyen, en tusschen de landen, eilanden, steeden en plaatsen, geleegen , onder de jurisdictie van de gemelde Vereenigde Nederlanden , en de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, en derselver onderdanen en ingezeetenen van allerley Staat, sonder onder scheid van persoonen en plaatsen.
ARTL II. De onderdanen van de gemelde Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Ne-

VOL. VIII. 5

(33)

34

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

Subjects of United Nether
lands shall have the same privi. leges in the United States, as the most favoured nation

shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands , cities or places, of the United States of America , or any of them , no other nor greater duties or imposts, of whatever nature or denomination they may be, than those which the nations the most favoured, are or shall be obliged to
pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, priviledges, immunities, and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another, in the said states, or in going from any of those ports to any foreign
port of the world, or from any foreign port of the world to any of those ports.

ARTICLE III.

Citizens ofU. S. shall have
the same privileges in United Netherlands as
the most favour ed nations.

The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States of America, shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities or places of the said United Netherlands, or any of them, no other nor greater
duties or imposts of whatever nature or denomination they may be, than those which the nations the most favoured , are or shall be obliged to
pay : And they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, priviledges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another in the said states, or from any one towards any one of those ports, from or to any foreign port of the world. And the United States of America, with their subjects and inhabitants, shall leave to those of their High Mightinesses, the peacable enjoyment of their rights, in the countries, islands and seas, in the East and West-Indies, without any hindrance or molestation.

ARTICLE IV.

Liberty ofconscience, & c. secured to the citizens of each party in the other's dominions.

There shall be an entire and perfect liberty of conscience allowed to the subjects and inhabitants of each party, and to their families, and no one shall be molested in regard to his worship , provided he submits as to the public demonstration of it, to the laws of the country : There shall be given moreover, liberty, when any subjects or inhabitants of
either party shall die in the territory of the other, to bury them in the usual burrying places, or in decent and convenient grounds to be appointed for that purpose, as occasion shall require ; and the dead bodies of those who are burried , shall not in any wise be molested. And the

two contracting parties shall provide, each one in his jurisdiction , that their respective subjects and inhabitants may henceforward obtain the requisite certificates in cases of deaths, in which they shall be interested.

ARTICLE V.

Both parties to protect vessels of the other in
their dominions, to restore them
when captured, and to convoy in certain cases.

Their High Mightinesses, the States General of the United Netherlands , and the United States of America, shall endeavour, by all the means in their power, to defend and protect all vessells and other effects, belonging to their subjects and inhabitants respectively, or to any of them, in their ports, roads, havens, internal seas, passes, rivers, and as far as their jurisdiction extends at sea, and to recover, and cause to be restored to the true proprietors , their agents or attornies, all such ves-

sells and effects, which shall be taken under their jurisdiction : And

their vessells of war and convoys, in cases when they may have a com

mon enemy, shall take under their protection all the vessells belonging

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

35

derlanden, zullen in de havens, rheeden , landen , eilanden , steeden of plaatsen van de Vereenigde Staten van America , of eenige van dezelve, geen andere of grootere regten of impositien van wat natuur, die ook mogen zyn, of hoedanig dezelve ook genoemt mogen werden, betaalen, dan die welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien, zyn of zullen worden verpligt aldaar te betaalen. En zy zullen genieten alle de regten, vryheeden, privilegien , immuniteiten en exemptien in handel, navigatie en commercie, het zy in het gaan van eene haven in de gemelde Staaten na eene andere, of gaande van eenige van deeze havens na eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, of van eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, na eenige van deeze havens, welke de gemelde natien reeds genieten of zullen genieten.
ARTL III.
Insgelyks zullen de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, in de havens, rheeden , landen, eilanden, steeden of plaatsen van de gemelde Vereenigde Nederlanden of eenige van dezelve, geen andere of grootere regten of impositien, van wat natuur, die ook mogen zyn of hoedanig dezelve ook genoemt mogen worden, betaalen , dan die, welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien, zyn of zullen worden verpligt aldaar te betalen . En zy zullen genieten alle de regten, vryheeden , privilegien , immuniteiten, en exemptien in handel , navigatie en commercie, het zy in het gaan van eene haven in de gemelde Staaten na eene andere, of gaande na en van dezelve, van en na eenige vreemde haven van de wereld, welke de meest gefavoriseerde natien reeds genieten of sullen genieten. En zullen de Vereenigde Staten van America, beneevens haare onderdanen en ingezeetenen, aan die van Haar Hoog Mogende laten het gerust genot van haare regten, omtrent de landen, eilanden en zeeën , in Oost en West-Indien , sonder haar daar in eenig belet of hindernis te doen.
ARTL IV.
Er zal eene volle, volkomene en geheele vryheid van conscientie worden toegestaen aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van iedere parthy, en aan derzelver familien , en zal niemand ter zake van den Godtsdienst worden gemolesteert, mits hem omtrent publique de monstratie onderwerpende aan de wetten van het land. Daar en boven zal vryheid worden gegeeven aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van iedere parthye, die in des anderen's territoir overlyden, om begraven te worden in de gewoone begraafplaatsen of gevoeglyke en decente plaatsen, daar toe te bepaalen, zoo als de geleegendheid zal vereisschen, nogte zullen de doode lighaamen van die geene, die begraven zyn eenigzints werden gemolesteert. En zullen de beide contracteerende de mogendheeden, ieder onder hun gebied, de nodige voorsieninge doen, ten einde de respective onderdanen en ingezeetenen van behoorlyke bewyzen van sterfgevallen, waar by dezelve zyn geinteresseert voortaan zullen kunnen worden gedient.
ARTL V.
Haar Hoog Mogende, de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden en de Vereenigde Staten van America, zullen tragten zoo veel eenigzints in haar vermogen is, te beschermen en defendeeren alle
scheepen en andere effecten toebehoorende aan wederzydsche onderdanen en ingezeetenen , of eenige van dezelve, zynde in haare havens of rheën, binnenlandsche zeeën , stroomen , rivieren, en zoo verre haare jurisdictie zeewaards strekt, en wederom te bekomen, ente doen restitueeren aan de regte eigenaers , húnne agenten of gevolmagtigden, alle zodanige scheepen , en effecten die, onder haare jurisdictie, zullen genomen worden en haare convoyeerende oorlog scheepen zullen, voor

36

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

to the subjects and inhabitants of either party, which shall not be laden with contraband goods, according to the description which shall be made of them hereafter, for places, with which one of the parties is in peace and the other at war, nor destined for any place blocked, and which shall hold the same course or follow the same rout ; and they shall defend such vessells as long as they shall hold the same course or follow the same rout, against all attacks, force and violence of the common enemy, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend the vessells belonging to their own respective subjects.

ARTICLE VI.

Citizens of either party may dispose of estate by will or otherwise.
Regulations concerning the same .

The subjects of the contracting parties may, on one side and on the other, in the respective countries and states, dispose of their effects, by testament, donation , or otherwise ; and their heirs, subjects of one of
the parties, and residing in the country of the other, or elsewhere, shall receive such successions, even ab intestato, whether in person or by their attorney or substitute, even although they shall not have obtained letters of naturalization, without having the effect of such commission contested, under pretext of any rights or prerogatives of any province, city, or private person ; and if the heirs, to whom such successions may have fallen, shall be minors, the tutors or curators, established by the judge domiciliary of the said minors, may govern, direct, administer, sell and alienate the effects fallen to the said minors by inheritance , and in general, in relation to the said successions and effects, use all the rights, and fullfill all the functions which belong, by the disposition of the laws, to guardians, tutors and curators : Provided nevertheless, that this disposition cannot take place, but in cases where the testator shall not have named guardians, tutors, curators, by testament, codicil, or other legal instrument.

Subjects of each party may employ such advocates, & c. as they think
proper.

ARTICLE VII.
It shall be lawfull and free for the subjects of each party, to employ such advocates, attorneys, notaries, solicitors, or factors, as they shall judge proper.

Vessels, & c. not to be de. ained.

ARTICLE VIII.
Merchants, masters and owners of ships , mariners, men of all kinds, ships and vessells, and all merchandizes and goods in general , and effects of one of the confederates, or of the subjects thereof, shall not be seized, or detained in any of the countries, lands , islands, cities, places, ports, shores, or dominions whatsoever of the other confederate, for any military expedition , publick or private use of any one, by arrests , violence, or any colour thereof; much less shall it be permitted to the subjects of either party, to take or extort by force, any thing from the subjects of the other party, without the consent of the owner ; which, however, is not to be understood of seizures, detentions and arrests , which shall be made by the command and authority of justice, and by the ordinary methods, on account of debts or crimes, in respect whereof, the proceedings must be by way of law, according to the forms ofjustice.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

87

zoo verre zy eenen gemeenen vyand mogen hebben, onder haare protectie neemen alle scheepen toebehoorende aan elkanders onderdanen en ingezeetenen, dewelke geene contrabande goederen, volgens de beschryving, hier na daar van te doen, zullen hebben ingelaaden naar plaatsen, waar meede de eene parthy in vreede, en de andere in oorlog is, en na geen geblocqueerde plaats gedestineert zyn, en zullen houden dezelve cours, of gaan dezelve weg, en zullen zodanige scheepen defendeeren, zoo lang als zy dezelve cours houden, of deselve weg gaan, teegens alle aanvallen, magt en geweld van den gemeenen vyand op dezelve wys als zy zouden moeten beschermen en defendeeren de scheepen toebehoorende aan weedersyds eigen onderdanen.
ARTL VI.
De onderdanen der contracteerende parthyen, zullen over en weeder in weedersydsche landen en staten van hunne goederen by testamenten donatien, of andersints mogen disponeeren ; en hunne erfgenamen , zynde onderdanen van een der parthyen in de landen vande andere, of wel elders woonagtig, zullen dezelve nalatenschapen ontfangen, selfs ab intestato, het zy in persoon, het zy by hun procureur of gemagtigde, schoon zy geen brieven van naturalisatie zouden mogen hebben geobtineert, zonder dat het effect van die commissie, hun zal kunnen worden betwist, onder prætext van eenige regten, of voorregten van eenige provincie, stad of particulier perzoon : ensoo de erfgenamen, aan welke de erffenissen mogten vervallen zyn , minder jarig waren , zullen de voogden of curateurs by den domiciliairen regter der genoemde minderjarigen aangestelt, kunnen regeeren, bestieren, administreeren, verkoopen en veralieneeren de goederen , welke de gemelde minderjarigen by erffenissen zullen zyn te beurt gevallen ; en generalyk met opsigttot de voorschreeve successien en goederen, waarneemen alle regten en functien, die aan voogden en curateurs na dispositie der wetten competeeren, behoudens nogtans dat deeze dispositie geen plaats zal kunnen hebben, dan ingevalle als wanneer de testateur, by testament, codicille, of ander wettig instrument, geene-voogden of curateurs sal hebben genomineert.
ARTL VII.
Het zal wettig en vry zyn aan de onderdanen van iedere parthye, zodanige advocaten, procureurs, notarissen, solliciteurs of factoors te employeeren, als zy zullen goedvinden.
ARTL VIII.
Kooplieden, schippers, eygenaers, bootsgezellen, lieden van alderhande soort , scheepen en vaartuigen, en alle koopmanschappen en goederen in 't generaal, en effecten van een derbondgenooten, of van derselver onderdanen, zullen niet mogen worden in beslag genomen of aangehouden in eenige der landen , gronden , eilanden , steeden, plaatsen, havens, stranden of dominien , hoegenaamt van den anderen bondgenoot, tot eenige militaire expeditie, publicq of privaat gebruik van iemand, door arrest, geweld of eenigsints daar na gelykender veel-minder zal het gepermitteert zyn aan de onderdanen van iedere parthy iets te neemen of door geweld te ontvreemden , van de onderdanen van de andere parthy sonder bewilliging van den persoon , die het toebehoord : het geen egterniet te verstaan is van die aanhalingen, detentien , en arresten , welke zullen worden gedaan op bevel en authoriteit van de justitie en volgens de ordinaire weegen, ten opzigte van schulden of misdaden, waar omtrent de procedures moeten geschieden , by wege van regten, ingevolge de form van justitie.


38

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS . 1782 .

ARTICLE IX.

Privileges of

It is further agreed and concluded , that it shall be wholly free for all

citizens in trans- merchants, commanders of ships, and other subjects and inhabitants of acting business. the contracting parties, in every place, subjected to the jurisdiction of

the two powers respectively, to manage themselves, their own business ;

and moreover as to the use of interpreters or brokers, as also in relation to the loading or unloading of their vessells, and every thing which has

relation thereto, they shall be, on one side and on the other, considered and treated upon the footing of natural subjects, or, at least, upon an

equality with the most favored nation.

ARTICLE X.

Merchant

ships, if ed, shall

requir exhibit

sea-letters, &c.

ifno contraband goods shall

pass.

The merchant ships , of either of the parties, coming from the port of an enemy, or from their own, or a neutral port, may navigate freely
towards any port of an enemy of the other ally : they shall be, nevertheless, held, whenever it shall be required, to exhibit, as well upon the high-seas, as in the ports, their sea-letters, and other documents, described in the twenty-fifth article, stating expressly that their effects are not of the number of those, which are prohibited, as contraband : and not having any contraband goods for an enemy's port, they may freely and without hindrance, pursue their voyage towards the port of an enemy. Nevertheless , it shall not be required to examine the papers of vessells convoyed by vessells of war , but credence shall be given to the word of the officer, who shall conduct the convoy.

Mode of pro-
ceeding when contraband goods are dis. covered.

ARTICLE XI.
If by exhibiting the sea-letters, and other documents, described more particularly in the twenty-fifth article of this treaty, the other party shall discover there are any of those sorts of goods, which are declared prohibited, and contraband, and that they are consigned for a port under the obedience of his enemy, it shall not be lawful to break up the hatches of such ship, nor to open any chest, coffer, packs, casks, or other vessells found therein, or to remove the smallest parcell of her goods, whether the said vessell belongs to the subjects of their High Mightinesses, the States General of the United Netherlands, or to the subjects or inhabitants of the said United States of America, unless the lading be brought on shore, in presence of the officers of the court of admiralty, and an inventary thereof made ; but there shall be no allowance to sell, exchange, or alienate the same, untill after that due and lawfull process shall have been had against such prohibited goods of contraband, and the court of admiralty, by a sentence pronounced, shall have confiscated the same, saving always as well the ship itselff, as any other goods found therein, which are to be esteemed free, and may not be detained on pretence of their being infected by the prohibited goods, much less shall they be confiscated as lawfull prize : but on the contrary, when by the visitation at land , it shall be found that there are no contraband goods in the vessell, and it shall not appear by the papers that he who has taken and carried in the vessell has been able to dis-
cover any there, he ought to be condemned in all the charges , damages and interests of them, which he shall have caused , both to the owners of vessells, and to the owners and freighters of cargoes with which they shall be loaded, by his temerity in taking and carrying them in ; declaring most expressly the free vessells shall assure the liberty of the effects with which they shall be loaded , and that this liberty shall extend itselff equally to the persons who shall be found in a free vessell , who may not be taken out of her, unless they are military men actually in the service of an enemy.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

39

ARTL IX .
Verders is overeengekomen en beslooten, dat het volkomen vry zal staan aan alle kooplieden bevelhebbers van scheepen en andere onderdanen of ingezeetenen der beide contracteerende mogendheeden in alle plaatsen, respectivelyk gehoorende onder het gebied en de jurisdictie der weederzydsche mogendheeden húnne eige saaken, zelfs te verrigten ; zullende deselve wyders, omtrent het gebruik van tolken of makelaars, mitsgaders met opzigt tot het laaden, of ontladen hunner scheepen, en al het geen daar toe betrekkelyk is, over en weeder op den voet van eige onderdanen, of ten minsten in-gelykheid met de meest gefavoriseerde natie geconsidereert en gehandelt worden.
ARTL X.
De koopvaardy scheepen van een ieder der parthyen , komende soo wel van een vyandelyke, als eige of neutrale haven, zullen vry mogen vaaren naa eenige haven van een vyand van den anderen bondgenoot ; dog verpligt zyn, soo dikwils het gevordert word, haare zeebrieven en verdere bescheiden in het 25ste articul beschreeven, zoo wel op de open zee, als in de havens te exhibeeren, expresselyk aantonende, dat haare goederen niet zyn van het getal dier geene, dewelke als contrabande verbooden zyn, en geene contrabande goederen voor een vyandelyke haven gelaaden hebbende, na de haven van een vyand, haare reize vryelyk en onverhindert mogen vervolgen ; dog sal geen visitatie van papieren gevergt worden van scheepen, onder convoy der oorlog scheepen, maar geloof worden gegeeven aan het woord van den officier, het convoy leidende.
ARTL XI.
Indien by het vertoonen der zee-brieven en andere bescheiden by het 25ste articul van dit tractaat nader beschreeven, de andere parthy ontdekt, dat er eenige van die soort van goederen zyn, dewelke verbooden en contrabande gedeclareert zyn , en geconsigneert naar een haven onder de gehoorsaemheid van den vyand, zal het niet geoorloft zyn de luyken van zodanig schip op te breeken , of eenige kist, koffers, pakken, kassen of ander vaat-werk, daar in gevonden wordende te openen of het geringste gedeelte van haare goederen te verplaatsen, het sy sodanige scheepen toebehooren aan de onderdanen van Haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, of aan onderdanen en ingezeetenen van de gemelde Vereenigde Staaten van America, ten zy de lading aan land gebragt worde in presentie van de officieren van het admiraliteits hoff, en een inventaris van deselve gemaakt, dog sal niet worden toegelaten , om deselve op eenigerhande wyse te verkoopen, verruilen of veralieneeren , dan, na dat behoorlyke en wettige procedures regens zodanige verbodene contrabande goederen zullen zyn gehouden, en het admiraliteits hof by een gepronuntieerde sententie dezelve zal hebben geconfisqueert, daar van altoos vrylatende, zoo wel het schip zelve, als eenige andere goederen, daarin gevonden wordende, welke voor vry werden gehouden, nogte mogen dezelve worden opgehouden , onder voorgeeven, dat die, als't ware door de geprohibeerde goederen, zouden zyn geinfecteert, veel min zullen deselve, als wettige prys worden geconfisqueert : Maar in tegendeel, wanneer by de visitatie aan land word bevonden , dat er geen contrabande waaren in de scheepen zyn, en uit de papieren niet bleek, dat de neemer en opbrenger, het daar uit niet had konnen ontdekken , zal deselve moeten worden gecondemneert in alle de kosten en schaden , die hy zoo aan de eigenaaren der scheepen, als aan de eigenaars en inlaaders der goederen , waar meede de scheepen belaaden zullen zyn, door zyne rukelooze aanhouding en opbrenging der scheepen zal hebben veroorsaakt met de interessen van dien ; wordende wel expresselyk verklaart, dat een vry schip, zal vry maaken de waaren daar ingelaaden, en dat die vryheid zig ook

40

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782

ARTICLE XII.

Goods found

On the contrary, it is agreed , that whatever shall be found to be laden

shiapnlieanbelemyt'o sbe confiscated, unless put on board before declaration of war or within six months after.

by the subjects and inhabitants of either party, on any ship belonging to the enemies of the other, or to their subjects, although it be not comprehended under the sort of prohibited goods, the whole may be confiscated in the same manner as if it belonged to the enemy ; except
nevertheless such effects and merchandizes as were put on board such vessell before the declaration of war, or in the space of six months after it, which effects shall not be, in any manner, subject to confiscation , but

shall be faithfully and without delay restored in nature to the owners who shall claim them, or cause them to be claimed , before the confisca-

tion and sale, as also their proceeds, if the claim could not be made but

in the space of eight months after the sale, which ought to be publick : Provided nevertheless, that if the said merchandizes are contraband, it

shall by no means be lawfull to transport them afterwards to any port belonging to enemies.

ARTICLE XIII.

Vessels ofwar And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of subor privateers to do no injuryto jects and people of either party, that they do not suffer molestation from

either party; if they do, to be punished and make repara-
tion.

the vessells of war or privateers of the other party, it shall be forbidden to all commanders of vessells of war and other armed vessells of the
said States General of the United Netherlands, and the said United States of America, as well as to all their officers, subjects and people,

to give any offence or do any damage to those of the other party ; and

if they act to the contrary, they shall be, upon the first complaint which

shall be made of it , being found guilty after a just examination, punish-

ed by their proper judges, and moreover obliged to make satisfaction for

all damages and interests thereof, by reparation , under pain and obliga tion of their persons and goods.

ARTICLE XIV.

Captains of

For further determining of what has been said, all captains of pri-

privateers, & c. vateers, or fitters-out of vessells armed for war, under commission and togive sufficient

caution, to be on account of private persons, shall be held , before their departure, to

rtehesipronmsailbvleerfsoar- give sufficient caution, before competent judges, either to be entirely

tions.

responsible for the malversations which they may commit in their cruizes

or voyages, as well as for the contraventions of their captains and offi-

cers against the present treaty, and against the ordinances and edicts

which shall be published in consequence of and conformity to it, under

pain of forfeiture and nullity of the said commissions.

ARTICLE XV.

Goods rescued from pirates to be restored.

All vessells and merchandizes of whatsoever nature, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers, navigating the high seas without requisite comissions, shall be brought into some port of one of the two states, and deposited in the hands of the officers of that port

in order to be restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and

sufficient proofs shall be made concerning the property thereof.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

41

zal uitstrekken over de persoonen , die haar zullen bevinden in een vry schip, dewelke daar uit niet geligt zullen mogen worden, ten zy het waren oorlogsluiden in effectiven dienst van den vyand.
ARTL XII.
In tegendeel is overeengekomen, dat al het geen bevonden zal worden gelaaden te zyn door de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van een der beide parthyen, in eenig schip de vyanden van den anderen , of aan deszelfs onderdanen toebehoorende, geheel, of schoon niet zynde van de soort van verbodene goederen, mag worden geconfisqueert, op dezelve wys als of het den vyand toequam, uitgesondert zodanige goederen en koopmanschappen, als aan boord van zodanig schip gedaan waren voor de oorlogs-declaratie, of binnen ses maanden na deselve, welke goederen in geenendeele confiscatie zullen onderheevig zyn, maar wel en getrouwelyk sonder uitstel aan de eigenaers, die deselve voor de confiscatie en verkoop zullen te rug vragen of doen vragen, in natura zullen worden gerestitueert, gelyk meede het provenu daar van, indien de reclame binnen agt maanden na de verkoping, dewelke publicq zal moeten worden gedaen, eerst konde geschieden , dog zoo, dat, indien de gemelde koopmanschappen, contrabande zyn, het geenzints, geoorloft zal zyn deselve naderhand te vervoeren na eenige havens, de vyanden toebehoorende.
ARTL XIII.

En ten einde de best mogelyke zorg mag worden gedragen voor de securiteit van de onderdanen en het volk van een der beide parthyen, dat dezelve geen overlast komen te lyden van weegens de oorlog-scheepen of kapers van de andere parthy, zullen alle de bevelhebbers van oorlog-scheepen en gewapende vaartuigen van de voorschreeve Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, mits gaders alle derselver officieren onderdanen en volk, verbooden worden eenige beleediging of schade aan die van de andere zyde toe-te-brengen, en zoo zy dien contrarie handelen , zullen zy op de eerste klagten, daar over te doen, na behoorlyk ondersoek schuldig bevonden wordende, door haar eige regters gestraft worden, endaar en boven verpligt worden satisfactie te geeven voor alle schade, en den interest daar van, door vergoeding onder pone en verbintenis van hunne personen en goederen.

ARTL XIV.
Tot meerder verklaring van het geen voorschreeve is, zullen alle kaper capiteinen of rheeders van scheepen op particuliere bestelling en commissie ten oorlog-uitgerust, voor dezelve gehouden zyn , voor derselver vertrek, goede en suffisante cautie te stellen voor de competente regters, of in het geheel te verantwoorden de malversatien, die- ze in haare courssen, of op haare reizen zouden mogen-begaan, en voor de contraventien van haare capiteinen en officieren, teegen het tegenwoordig tractaat ende ordonnantien, en edicten , die gepubliceert zullen worden, in kragte, en conform de dispositie van dien, op pæne van verval , en nulliteit der voorschreve commissien.

ARTL XV.

Alle scheepen en koopmanschappen , van wat natuur dezelve ook zyn , die hernomen zullen worden uit handen van piratten en zeerovers, son-

der behoorlyke commissie op de open zee varende, zullen gebragt wor den in eenige haven van eene der beide staten , en zullen aan de bewaring der officieren van die haven worden overgeleevert, ten einde geheel,

gerestitueert te worden aan den regten eigenaer, zoodra als behoorlyk

en genoegsaam bewys, weegens den eigendom der zelve, zal gedaan zyn.

VOL. VIII. 6

D2

42

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

ARTICLE XVI.

In case of shipwreck, relief shall be afford.
ed and goods restored.

If any ships or vessells, belonging to either of the parties, their subjects or people, shall, within the coasts or dominions of the other, stick upon the sands, or be wrecked or suffer any other sea-damage, all friendly assistance and relief shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or such as shall be in danger thereof; and the vessells, effects and merchandizes, or the part of them which shall have been saved, or the proceeds of them, if, being perishable, they shall have been sold, being claimed within a year and a day by the masters or owners, or their agents or attornies, shall be restored, paying only the reasonable charges, and that which must be paid, in the same case, for the salvage, by the proper subjects of the country : there shall also be delivered them, safe conducts or passports, for their free and safe passage from thence, and to returne, each one to his own country.

ARTICLE XVII.

When vessels by stress of weather, & c. shall be forced
into ports, & c. they shall be protected and
permitted to depart.

In case the subjects or people of either party, with their shipping, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, be forced through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, or any other urgent necessity for seeking of shelter and harbour, to retract and enter into any of the rivers, creeks, bays, ports, roads or shores, belonging to the other party, they shall be received with all humanity and kindness, and enjoy all friendly protection and help, and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with victualls, and all things needfull for the sustenance of their persons, or reparation of their ships ; and they shall no ways be detained or hindred from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hindrance.

ARTICLE XVIII.

In case of war,
nine months al lowed to citi-
zens residing in
the other's dominion to sell and transport their effects.

For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides it is agreed , that if a war should break out, between their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, there shall always be granted to the subjects on each side, the term of nine months after the date of the rupture, or the proclamation of war, to the end that they may retire, with their effects, and transport them where they please , which it shall be lawfull for them to do, as well as to sell or transport their effects and goods, in all freedom and without any hindrance, and without being able to proceed, during the said term of nine months, to any arrest of their effects , much less of their persons ; on the contrary, there shall be given them, for their vessells and their effects, which they would carry away, passports and safe conducts for the nearest ports of their respective countries, and for the time necessary for the voyage. And no prize made at sea, shall be adjudged lawful , at least, if the declaration of war was not or could not be known , in the last port, which the vessell taken , has quitted, but for whatever may have been taken from the subjects and inhabitants of either party, and for the offences which may have been given them , in the interval of the said terms, a compleat satisfaction shall be given them .

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

43

ARTL XVI.
Indien eenige scheepen of vaartuigen toebehooreende aan een van Deyde de parthyen, hunne onderdanen of ingezeetenen, op de kusten of dominien van den anderen zullen komen te stranden, vergaan, of eenige andere zee-schade te lyden, zal alle vriendelyke assistentie en hulp worden gegeeven aan de persoonen schipbreuk geleeden hebbende, of die zig in gevaar daar van zullen bevinden ; en de scheepen, goederen en koopmanschappen, en het geen daarvan ge-borgen zal zyn, of het provenu van dien, by aldien die goederen verderffelyk zynde, zullen weezen verkogt, alle door de schippers of door de eigenaars, of van haare gelaste, of volmagt hebbende, binnen jaar en dag gereclameert wordende, worden gerestitueert ; mits betaelende alleen de reedelyke onkosten, en het geen voor bergloon door de eige onderdanen, in het zelve geval, betaalt moet worden ; zullende insgelyks brieven van vrygeley aan hun worden gegeeven, voor hunne vrye en geruste passage van daar, en retour van een ieder na syn eigen land.
ARTL XVII.
Ingevalle de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een der beide parthyen, met húnne scheepen, het zy publique en ten oorlog varende, of bysondere en ter koopvaardy uitgerust, door onstuimig weer, najaaging van zeerovers of vyanden, of eenige andere dringende nood, gedwongen zullen worden, terbekoming van een schuilplaats en haaven, zig te retireeren en binnen te loopen in eenige der rivieren , creeken, baayen , havens, rheeden of stranden, toebehoorende aan de andere parthye, zullen dezelve met alle menschlievendheid en goedwilligheid werden ontfangen, en alle vriendelyke protectie en hulp genieten en zal hun worden toegestaan zig te ververschen, en proviandeeren, teegens reedelyke prysen met victuaille, en alle dingen benoodigt tot onderhoud van haare persoonen of reparatie van hunne scheepen, en zy zullen op geenerley wys worden opgehouden , of verhindert uit de gemelde havens of rheeden te vertrekken, maar mogen verzylen en gaan wanneer en waar het hun behaagt, zonder eenig belet of verhindering.
ARTL XVIII.
Tot des te beeter voortzetting der weedersydsche commercie, is over eengekomen, dat indien een oorlog mogt komen te ontstaan, tusschen haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden , en de Vereenigde Staten van America, altyd aan de onderdanen van de een of andere zyde zal worden gegeeven den tyd van neegen maanden, na dato van de rupture of proclamatie van oorlog, om haar te mogen retireeren met haare effecten, endezelve te vervoeren, waar het haar believen zal, het welk haar geoorloft zal zyn te mogen doen ; als meede te mogen verkoopen of transporteeren haare goederen en meubilien in alle vryheid ; sonder dat men haar daarin eenig belet zal-doen ; ook zonder geduurende den tyd van de voorschreeve neegen maanden te mogen procedeeren tot eenig arrest van haare effecten, veel min van haare persoonen, maar zullen inteegendeel voor haare scheepen, en effecten, die zy zullen willen meedevoeren worden gegeeven pasporten van vry geleide tot de naeste havenen in elkanders Landen voor den tyd, tot de reizen nodig. Ook zullen geen pryzen op zee genomen Voor wettig genomen gehouden mogen worden, ten minsten indien de oorlogs-declaratie, niet bekent was geweest of had kunnen zyn in de haven, die het geenoome schip het laast heeft verlaten , maar zal voor al, het geen aan de onderdanen en ingezetenenen van weederzyden binnen de voorschreeve termynen, ontnomen mogt zyn en de beleedigingen, die hun aangedaan zouden mogen zyn , volkomen satisfacte gegeeven worden.

44

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

ARTICLE XIX.

Citizens of neither party shall take com.
missions or let ters of marque
from a prince or state with whom the other is at war.

No subject of their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, shall apply for or take any commission or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the said United States of America, or any of them, or the subjects and inhabitants of the said United States or any of them, or against the pro-
perty of the inhabitants of any of them, from any prince or state with which the said United States of America may happen to be at war ; nor

shall any subject or inhabitant of the said United States of America, or

any of them , apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for

arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the High and

Mighty Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, or against the subjects of their High Mightinesses, or any of them, or against the property of any one of them, from any prince or state with which their

High Mightinesses may be at war : And if any person of either nation shall take such commission or letters of marque, he shall be punished

as a pirate.

ARTICLE XX.

Vessels com-
ing on the coast or entering the ports of either party, how to be treated.

If the vessells of the subjects or inhabitants of one of the parties come upon any coast belonging to either of the said allies, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port and not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, or take in any cargoe, they shall not be obliged to pay, neither for the vessells nor the cargoes, any duties of entry in or out, or to render any account of their cargoes, at least if there is not just cause to presume that they carry to an enemy merchandizes of contraband.

Consuls, & c. to be allowed in the ports of each nation.

ARTICLE XXI.
The two contracting parties grant to each other mutually, the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries of their own appointing, whose functions shall be regulated by particular agreement, whenever either party chuses, to make such appointments.

ARTICLE XXII.

This treaty not This treaty shall not be understood in any manner to derogate from

to derogate from treaty

the ninth, tenth, nineteenth and twenty-fourth articles of the treaty with

with France. France, as they were numbered in the same treaty, concluded the sixth

of February, 1778, and which make the articles ninth, tenth, seven-

teenth and twenty-second of the treaty of commerce now subsisting

between the United States of America, and the crown of France : nor

shall it hinder his Catholic Majesty from acceding to that treaty, and

enjoying the advantages of the said four articles.

ARTICLE XXIII .

United Netherlands to aid the U. S. in form . ing treaties with the Barbary powers.

If at any time the United States of America shall judge necessary to commence negotiations with the King or Emperor of Marocco and Fez, and with the Regencies of Algiers, Tunis or Tripoli, or with any of them , to obtain passports for the security of their navigation in the Mediterranean Sea, their High Mightenesses promise that upon the requisition which the United States of America shall make of it, they will second such negotiations in the most favourable manner, by means of their consuls, residing near the said King, Emperor and Regencies.

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS . 1782.

45

3

ARTL XIX .

Geen onderdaan van haar Hoog Mogende de Staten Generaal der

Vereenigde Nederlanden, zullen mogen versoeken of aanneemen eenige

commissien, of lettres de marque tot het wapenen van eenig schip, of

scheepen, ten einde als kapers te ageeren teegens de gemelde Vereenigde

Staten van America of eenige der zelve, of tegens de onderdanen of

ingezeetenen der gemelde Vereenigde Staten, of eenige der zelve, of teegens den eigendom der ingezeetenen van eenige der zelve , van

eenige prins of staat, met wien de voorschreeve Vereenigde Staten van

America in oorlog mogten zyn ; nochte zal eenige onderdaen of inge-

zeeten van demelde Vereenigde staten van America, of eenige derselve,

eenige commissie off lettres de marque versoeken of aanneemen , tot het

wapenen van eenig schip of scheepen, om ter kaap te vaaren tegens de

Hoog Mogende Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden,

of teegens de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van gemelde Haar Hoog

Mogende, of eenige van deselve, of den eigendom van eenige derzelve,

van eenige Prins of Staat, met wien haar Hoog Mogende in oorlog

zullen zyn ; en indien eenig persoon van een van beide natien zodanige

commissie of lettres de marque zal aanneemen zal deselve als een zee-

rover worden gestraft.

ARTL XX .

De scheepen der onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een van beide de parthyen, komende aan eenige kust, toebehoorende aan de een of andere der gemelde bondgenooten, doch niet voorneemens zynde in een haven binnen te loopen, of binnen geloopen zynde, en niet begeerende hunne ladingen te lossen , of last te breeken , of by te laden, zullen niet gehouden zyn voor haare scheepen of laadingen eenige inkomende, of uitgaende regten te betalen nog eenige reekenschap van haare ladingen te geeven, ten minsten indien er geen wettig vermoeden is, dat zy aan een vyand toevoeren koopmanschappen van contrabande.
ARTL XXI.

De twee contracteerende parthyen vergúnnen over en weeder aan elkanderen de vryheid, om ieder in de havens van den anderen, consuls, vice-consuls, agenten en commissarissen van húnne eigen aanstelling te hebben, welkers functien gereguleert zullen worden by particuliere overeenkomst, wanneer ooit eene der beide parthyen goedvind zodanige aanstelling te doen.
ARTL XXII.

Dit tractaat zal in geenerhande opsigten verstaan worden te derogeeren aan de 9, 10, 19 en 24 articulen, van het tractaat met Vrankryk, soo als die genummert zyn geweest in het zelve tractaat den 6 February, 1778, geslooten, zynde de 9, 10, 17 en 22 articulen van het tractaat van commercie, soo als het nu in kragt is, tusschen de Vereenigde Staten van America en de kroon van Vrankryk en zal meede niet beletten, dat syne Catholicque Majesteit aan t'selve zoude accedeeren , en van het beneficie der gemelde vier articulen joisseeren.

ARTL XXIII.

By aldien de Vereenigde Staten van America, t'eeniger tyd nodig mogten vinden, om by den koning of keizer van Marocco of Fez , mitsgaders by de regeeringen van Algiers, Tunis of Tripoli, of by eenige van dezelve, negotiatien te entameeren tot het verkrygen van pasporten, ter beveiliging van hunne navigatie op de Middelandsche zee, zoo beloven haar Hoog Mogende op het aanzoek van Hoogstgedagte Vereenigde Staten, die negotiatien door middel van hunne by den voorschreeve koning of keizer en regeeringen, resideerende consuls op de favorabelste wyze te zullen secondeeren.

46

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

CONTRABAND.

What goods sehdalclonbterdabeaenmd-.

ARTICLE XXIV.
The liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all sorts of merchandizes, excepting only those which are distinguished , under the name of contraband, or merchandizes prohibited and under this denomination of contraband and merchandizes prohibited , shall be comprehended only warlike stores and arms, as mortars, artillery, with their artifices and appurtenances, fusils, pistols , bombs, grenades, gun-powder, saltpetre, sulphur, match, bullets and balls, pikes, sabres, lances, halberts, casques, cuirasses, and other sorts of arms ; as also soldiers, horses, saddles, and furniture for horses ; all other effects and merchandizes, not before specified expressly, and even all sorts of naval matters , however proper they may be for the construction and equipment of vessels of war, or for the manufacture of one or another sort of machines of war by land or sea, shall not be judged contraband, neither by the letter, nor according to any pretended interpretation whatever , ought they, or can they be comprehended under the notion of effects prohibited or contraband. So that all effects and merchandizes, which are
not expressly before named , may, without any exception , and in perfect. liberty, be transported by the subjects and inhabitants of both allies, from and to places belonging to the enemy ; excepting only the places which at the same time shall be besieged , blocked or invested ; and those places only shall be held for such, which are surrounded nearly by some of the belligerent powers.

ARTICLE XXV.

Regulations
respecting passports.

To the end that all dissention and quarrel may be avoided and prevented, it has been agreed, that in case that one of the two parties happens to be at war, the vessells belonging to the subjects or inhabitants of the other ally, shall be provided with sea-letters or passports , expressing the name, the property and the burthen of the vessell, as also the name and the place of abode of the master, or commander of the said vessell, to the end, that thereby it may appear, that the vessell really and truly belongs to subjects or inhabitants of one of the parties ; which passports shall be drawn and distributed , according to the form annexed to this treaty ; each time that the vessell shall return , she should have such her passport renewed, or at least, they ought not to be of more antient date than two years, before the vessell has been returned to her own country.

It has been also agreed, that such vessells, being loaded, ought to be provided not only with the said passports or sea-letters, but also with a general pasport, or with particular passports or manifests, or other publick documents, which are ordinarily given to vessells outward bound in the ports from whence the vessells have set sail in the last place, containing a specification of the cargo, of the place from whence the vessell departed, and of that of her destination ; or, instead of all these , with certificates from the magistrates or governors of cities, places and colonies, from whence the vessell came, given in the usual form , to the end that it may be known, whether there are any effects prohibited or contraband, on board the vessells, and whether they are destined to be carried to an enemy's country or not ; and in case any one judges proper to express in the said documents, the persons to whom the effects on board belong, he may do it freely, without, however, being bound to do

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

47

CONTRA BANDE.
ARTL XXIV.
De vryheid van navigatie en commercie zal zig uitstrekken tot alle soorten van koopmanschappen , uitgesondert alleen deeze, welke onderscheiden zyn onder den naam van contrabande of verbodene goederen : en onder deeze benoeming van contrabande of verbodene goederen, zullen alleen begreepen zyn de oorlogs ammunitien , of wapenen, als mortieren, geschut met zyne vuurwerken , en het geen daar toebehoort ; geweeren, pistoolen , bomben , granaden , buspulver, salpeeter, zwavel, lonten, koogels, pieken, zwaarden , lancien, helbaarden, casquetten, cuirassen, en diergelyk soort van wapentuig, ook soldaten, paarden, zadels, en toerusting van paarden. Alle andere goederen en koopmanschappen, hier boven niet uitdrukkelyk gespecificeert, jaa selfs alle soorten van scheepsmaterialen , hoe zeer dezelve ook zouden mogen zyn geschikt, tot het bouwen of equipeeren van oorlogscheepen,. of tot het maken van het een of ander oorlogstuig, te water of te lande, zullen mits dien nog volgens den letter, nog volgens eenige voor te wende interpretatie van dezelve , hoe ook genaamt onder verboodene of contrabande goederen, begreepen kunnen of mogen worden : zoo dat alle dezelve goederen, waaren en koopmanschappen, hier boven niet uitdrukkelyk genoemt, sonder eenig onderscheid zullen mogen worden getransporteert en vervoert in alle vryheid, door de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van beide bondgenooten , van en na plaatsen , aan den vyand toebehoorende, zodanige steeden of plaatsen alleen uitgesondert, welke op die tyt beleegert, geblocqueert of geinvesteert zyn, waar voor alleenlyk worden gehouden de zulke, die door een der oorlogvoerende mogendheeden van na by ingeslooten worden gehouden.
ARTL XXV.
Ten einde alle dissentie en twist mag werden vermyd en voorgekomen, is over een gekomen , dat ingeval een van beide de parthyen in oorlog mogt komen te geraken, de scheepen en vaartuigen , toebehoorende aan de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van de andere geallieerde, met zee-brieven of pasporten , moeten werden voorsien, expresseerende den naam, eigendom en de groote van het schip of vaartuig, als meede den naam , plaats, of woninge van den schipper of bevelhebber van het gemelde schip of vaartuig, ten einde daar by mag blyken , dat het schip recel en in waarheid aan de onderdanen of ingezeetenen van eene der parthyen toebehoord, welk pasport zal worden opgemaakt en uitgegeeven, volgens het formulier, agter dit tractaat gevoegt. Deselve zullen ieder reize, dat het schip thuys is geweest op nieuw verleent moeten zyn, often minsten niet ouder mogen zyn, als twee jaar, voorde tyd, dat het schip laast is thuys geweest.
Het is insgelyks vastgestelt, dat zodanige scheepen of vaartuigen gelaaden zynde, moeten weezen voorsien, niet alleen met pasporten of zeebrieven bovengemeld ; maar ook met een generaal pasport of particuliere pasporten , of manifesten, of andere publicque documenten, die in de havenen, van waar de scheepen laast gekomen zyn, gewoonlyk gegeeven worden aan de uitgaende scheepen, inhoudende een specificatie van de lading de plaats van waar het schip gezeild is, en waar heenen het gedestineert is, of by gebreeke van alle deselve met certificaten van de magistraten of gouverneurs der steeden , plaatsen en colonien , van waar het schip vertrokken is, in de gewoonde form gegeeven , op dat geweeten kan worden, of eenige verboode of contrabande goederen, aan boord van de scheepen zyn , en of zy daar meede na's vyands landen gedestineert zyn , of niet. En by aldien iemand goetdunkt of raadzaem vind, om in de gemelde bescheiden uit te drukken de persoonen, aan wien de aan boord zinde goederen toekomen, vermag hy

48

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

it ; and the omission of such expression cannot and ought not to cause a confiscation.

ARTICLE XXVI.

How ships and vessels are to be treated, when met by
ships of war or privateers.

If the vessells of the said subjects or inhabitants of either ofthe parties, sailing along the coasts or on the high seas, are met by a vessell of war, or privateer, or other armed vessell of the other party, the said vessells of war, privateers, or armed vessells, for avoiding all disorder, shall remain without the reach of cannon, but may send their boats on

board the merchant vessel, which they shall meet in this manner, upon

which they may not pass more than two or three men , to whom the master or commander shall exhibit his passport, containing the property of

the vessell, according to the form annexed to this treaty : And the ves-

sell, after having exhibited such a passport, sea-letter and other docu-

ments, shall be free to continue her voyage, so that it shall not be lawfull to molest her, or search her in any manner, nor to give her chase nor to force her to alter her course.

ARTICLE XXVII.

Lawful for
merchants and commanders of vessels to take into their service seamen and others belonging to either
nation.

It shall be lawfull for merchants, captains and commanders of vessells, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, belonging to the said United States of America, or any of them, or to their subjects and inhabitants, to take freely into their service, and receive on
board of their vessells, in any port or place in the jurisdiction of their High Mightinesses aforesaid, seamen or others, natives or inhabitants
of any of the said states, upon such conditions as they shall agree on, without being subject for this, to any fine, penalty, punishment, process or reprehension whatsoever.

And reciprocally, all merchants, captains and commanders, belonging to the said United Netherlands, shall enjoy, in all the ports and places under the obedience of the said United States of America, the same priviledge of engaging and receiving seamen or others, natives or inhabitants of any country of the domination of the said States General : Provided, that neither on one side nor the other, they may not take into their service such of their countrymen who have already engaged in the service of the other party contracting, whether in war or trade, and whether they meet them by land or sea ; at least if the captains or masters under the command of whom such persons may be found, will not of his own consent discharge them from their service ; upon pain of being otherwise treated and punished as deserters.

Ratification.

ARTICLE XXVIII.
The affair of the refraction shall be regulated in all equity and justice, by the magistrates of cities respectively, where it shall be judged that there is any room to complain in this respect.
ARTICLE XXIX.
The present treaty shall be ratified and approved by their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands, and by the United States of America ; and the acts of ratification shall be delivered

TREATY WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

49

zulks vryelyk te doen, sonder egter daar toe gehouden te syn, of dat gebrek van die uitdrukking geleegenheid tot confiscatie kan of mag geeven.
ARTL XXVI.

Indien de scheepen of vaartuigen van de gemelde onderdanen of ingezeetenen van een van beide de parthyen, zeilende langs de kusten off in de open zee, ontmoet zullen worden door eenig schip van oorlog, kaper, of gewapend vaartuig van de andere parthy, zullen de gemelde oorlog-scheepen, kapers of gewapende vaartuigen tot vermyding van alle disordre, buiten bereik van het geschut blyven, dog hunne booten mogen zenden aan boord van het koopvaardy schip, welke zy op die wys zullen ontmoeten, en op het zelve mogen overgaan ten getalle alleen van twee a drie man , aan wien de schipper of bevelhebber van zodanig schip of vaartuig zyn pasport zal vertoonen, inhoudende den eigendom van het schip of vaartuig ingevolge het formulier, agter dit tractaat gevoegt, en zal het schip of vaartuig na de vertooning van dusdanig pasport, zee-brief en verdere bescheiden vry en liber zyn, om deszelfs reis te vervolgen, zoo dat niet geoorloft zal zyn het zelve op eenigerhande wyze te molesteeren of doorzoeken, nog jagt op haar te maken , of het selve te forceeren , haare voorgenomen cours te verlaten.

ARTL XXVII.
Het zal geoorloft zyn aan kooplieden, capiteins, en bevelhebbers van scheepen, het zy publicque en ten oorlog, of particuliere en ter koopvardy vaarende, toebehoorende aan de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, of eenige van dezelve, of aan de onderdanen en ingezeetenen van eenige derzelve, vryelyk in hunne dienst aan te neemen, en aan boord van haare gemelde scheepen te ontfangen, in iedere der havens of plaatsen onder de jurisdictie van voornoemde Haar Hoog Mogende, eenige bootsgezellen of anderen, zynde inboorlingen of ingezeetenen van eenige der gemelde Staten, op zulke voorwaarden , als zal werden overeen gekomen, zonder daar voor aan eenige boete, poene, straffe, proces of berisping hoegenaamt onderheevig te zyn.
En zullen reciproquelyk alle kooplieden, capiteinen en bevelhebbers van scheepen, behoorrende tot de voorschreeven Vereenigde Nederlanden, in alle de havens en plaatsen, onder het gebied van de gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, het zelve voorregt genieten tot aanneeming en ontfangen van bootsgezellen of anderen, zynde inboorlingen of ingezeetenen van eenige der domeinen van de gemelde Staten Generaal, met dien verstande, dat men nog aan de eene nog aan de andere zyde zig zal mogen bedienen van zodanige zyner landsgenooten, die zig reeds in dienst van de andere contracteerende parthye, het zy ten oorlog het zy op koopvaardy scheepen, heeft geengageert, het zy men deselve aan de vaste wal, dan wel in zee zoude mogen ontmoeten, ten minsten indien de capiteinen of schippers, onder wiens bevel zodanige persoonen zig mogten bevinden , deselve niet vrywillig uit húnnen dienst wilde ontslaan, oppoene dat dezelve andersints op den voet van weglopers zullen worden behandelt, en gestraft.

ARTL XXVIII. De toeleg voor refractie zal in alle reedelykheid en billykheid worden gereguleert by de magistraten der respective steeden, alwaar men oordeelt, dat eenige bezwaaren desweegens plaets hebben.
ARTL XXIX .

Het tegenwoordig tractaat zal werden geratificeert en geapprobeert

by Hoogstgemelde Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en

Hoog gemelde Vereenigde Staten van America, en zullen de acten van

VOL. VIII. 7

E

50

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS . 1782.

in good and due form, on one side and on the other, in the space of six months, or sooner if possible, to be computed from the day of the signature.

In faith of which, We the Deputies and Plenipotentiaries of the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, in virtue of our respective authorities and full powers, have signed the present treaty, and apposed thereto the seals of our arms.

Done at the Hague the eight of October, one thousand seven hundred eighty-two. (L. s.) JOHN ADAMS.

CONVENTION

Between the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, concerning Vessells re-captured.

Oct. 8, 1782.

THE Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and the United States of America, being inclined to establish some uniform
principles with relation to prizes made by vessells of war, and commissioned by the two contracting powers, upon their common enemies, and to vessells of the subjects of either party, captured by the enemy, and re-captured by vessells of war commissioned by either party, have agreed upon the following articles.

ARTICLE I.

When vessels
of either nation tsuharleld,behorew-tchape-y shall be restored.

The vessells of either of the two nations re-captured by the privateers of the other, shall be restored to the first proprietor, if such vessells have not been four and twenty hours in the power of the enemy,
provided the owner of the vessell re-captured, pay therefor one third of the value of the vessell , as also of that of the cargo, the cannons and

apparel, which third shall be valued by agreement, between the parties
interested ; or, if they cannot agree thereon among themselves they shall address themselves to the officers of the admiralty, of the place

where the privateer who has re-taken the vessell shall have conducted her.

When they shall belong to the re-captor.

ARTICLE II.
If the vessell re-captured has been more than twenty-four hours in the power of the enemy, she shall belong entirely to the privateer whe has re-taken her.

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS . 1782.

51

ratificatien van de eene en de anderezyde in goede en de behoorlyke forme werde overgeleeverd binnen den tyd van zes maanden, ofte eerder zo het zelve kan geschieden , te reekenen van den dag van de onderteekening.
Ten oirkonde deezes, hebben wy Gedeputeerden, en Plenipotentiarissen van de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Neederlanden, en Minister Plenipotentiaris der Vereenigde Staten van America, uitkragte van onze respective authorisatie en plein pouvoir, deeze onderteekent, en met onze gewoone cachetten bekragtigt.
In den Hage den agtsten October, een duysent seeven hondert twee en tagtig. (L. S.) GEORGE VAN RANDWYCK. (L. S.) B. V. D. SANTHEUVEL. L. S. P. V. BLEISWYK. (L. S.) W. C. H. VAN LYNDEN. L. S. D. I. VAN HEECKEREN. (L. S.) JOAN VAN KUFFELER. (L. S. ) F. G. VAN DEDEM, tot den Gelder. (L. S.) H. TJASSENS.

CONVENTIE
Tusschen de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Ne-
derlanden en Vereenigde Staten van America, rakend de hernomen Scheepen.
De Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, en Vereenigde Staten van America, geneegen synde, eenige gelykvormige grond beginzelen vast te stellen , omtrent het opbrengen van prysen, door de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van wedersys contracteerende parthyen , op derselver gemeene vyanden genomen, en omtrent de scheepen van elkanders onderdanen, door den vyand genomen, en by de oorlogscheepen en commissie-vaarders van weederzyden hernomen zyn met den anderen over eengekomen, omtrent de navolgende articulen.
ARTICLE I.
De scheepen van eene der beide natien door kapers van den andere hernomen, zullen aan den eersten eigenaer wedergegeeven worden, indien die scheepen nog geen vier en twintig uuren in de magt van den vyand geweest zyn, mits door den eigenaer van het hernoome schip daar voor betaald worde een derde van de waarde van het schip mitsgaders van de laading, canons, en scheepstoerustingen, welk derde in der minne begroot zal worden door de geinteresseerde parthyen ; of andersints, en zoo zy desweegens niet over een konden komen, zullen zy zich adresseeren aan de bedienden der admiraliteit van de plaats alwaar de kaper die het schip hernomen heeft, het zelve zal hebben opgebracht.
ARTICLE II.
Indien het hernomen schip langer dan vier en twintig uuren in's vyands magt geweest is, zal het in'tgeheel aan den kaper, die het zelve hernomen heeft, toebehooren.

52

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

When re-cap.
tured by vessels of war, they shall be restored.

ARTICLE III.
In case a vessell shall have been re-captured by a vessell of war, belonging to the States-General of the United Netherlands, or to the United States of America, she shall be restored to the first owner, he paying a thirtieth part of the value of the ship , her cargo, cannons and apparel, if she has been re-captured in the interval of twenty-four hours, and the tenth part if she has been re-captured after the twenty-four hours ; which sums shall be distributed in form of gratifications to the crews of the vessells which shall have re-taken her. The valuation of the said thirtieth parts and tenth parts, shall be regulated according to the tenour of the first article of the present convention.

ARTICLE IV.

Restitution to bsoenmabaldeetiinmere. a-

The restitution of prizes, whether they may have been re-taken by vessells of war or by privateers, in the mean time and untill requisite and sufficient proofs can be given of the property of vessells re-captured, shall be admitted in a reasonable time , under sufficient sureties for the observation of the aforesaid articles.

ARTICLE V.

Vessels ofwar
and privateers to be admitted with their prizes into the ports of
both nations.

The vessells of war and privateers, of one and of the other of the two nations, shall be reciprocally, both in Europe and in the other parts of the world, admitted in the respective ports of each, with their prizes, which may be unloaded and sold according to the formalities used in the state where the prize shall have been conducted, as far as may be consistent with the twenty-second article of the treaty of commerce : Provided always, That the legality of prizes by the vessells of the Low Countries, shall be decided conformably to the laws and regulations established in the United Netherlands ; as likewise, that of prizes made by American vessells, shall be judged according to the laws and regulations determined by the United States of America.

Each nation
may make reulations.

ARTICLE VI.
Moreover, it shall be free for the States-General of the United Netherlands, as well as for the United States of America, to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary, relative to the conduct which their respective vessells and privateers ought to hold in relation to the vessells which they shall have taken and conducted into the ports of the two powers.

In faith of which, We the Deputies and Plenipotentiaries of the Lords the States General of the United Netherlands, and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, have, in virtue of our respective authorities and full powers, signed these presents, and
confirmed the same with the seal of our arms.

Done at the Hague, the eight of October, one thousand seven hun dred eighty-two. (L. S.) JOHN ADAMS .

CONVENTION WITH THE NETHERLANDS. 1782.

53

ARTICLE III.
Ingevalle een schip zal hernomen geweest zyn door een oorlog-schip ofvaartuig, toebehoorende aan de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden of aan de Vereenigde Staten van America, zal het zelve aan den eersten eigenaer wedergegeeven worden, mits betalende een dertigste gedeelte van de waarde van het schip en deszelfs laading, canons, en scheepstoerustingen , by aldien het binnen de vier en twintig uuren hernomen is, en het tiende gedeelte zoo het naa de vier en twintig uuren hernomen is : welke sommen als een gratificatie verdeeld zullen worden onder de equipagien van de scheepen die het zelve hernomen zullen hebben. De begroting der bovengemelde dertigste, en tiende gedeeltens zal gereguleerd worden naar luid van het eerste articul der jegenswoordige conventie.
ARTICLE IV.

De restitutie der pryzen het zy door oorlogscheepen of kapers hernomen, zal ondertusschen en tot dat behoorlyk en voldoende bewys van den eigendom der hernomen scheepen gegeeven kan werden, onder suffisante cautie wegens het nakomen der bovenstaande articulen, binnen een reedelyken tyt geadmitteert werden.
ARTICLE V.

De oorlog en kaper scheepen van de eene en de andere der beide natien zullen wederzyds, zoo in Europa als in de andere weereldsdeelen in elkanders respective havens toegelaten worden met hunne pryzen, welke aldaar zullen mogen ontladen en verkocht worden, naar de formaliteiten gebruikelyk in den staat, alwaar de prys zal weezen opgebragt, soo verhet bestaanbaar is met het 22ste articul van het tractaat van commercie ; met dien ver stande, dat de wettigheid der prysen door Nederlandsche scheepen gemaakt zal beslist worden, naar luid der wetten en reglementen , te deezer zake in de Vereenigde Nederlanden, vast gesteld, gelyk ook die der pryzen door Americaansche scheepen gemaakt, zal beoordeelt worden volgens de wetten en reglementem by de Vereenigde Staten van America ' bepaald.
ARTICLE VI.
Voor het overige zal het aan de Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Nederlanden, als meede aan de Vereenigde Staten van America vry staan, zodanige reglementen te maken als zy zullen oordeelen te behooren ; met betrekking tot het gedrag't geen hunne scheepen en kapers weedersyds verpligt zullen weezen te houden , ten opzigt der scheepen die zy genomen, en opgebragt zullen hebben in de havens der beide mogendheeden.

Ten oirkonde deezes, hebben Wy Gedeputeerden en Plenipotentia-

rissen van de Heeren Staten Generaal der Vereenigde Neder-

landen, en Minister Plenipotentiaris der Vereenigde Staten van

America, uyt kragt van onze respective authorisatie en plein pou-

voir, deeze onderteekent en met onze gewoone cachetten be-

kragtigt.

Gedaan in's Hage, den agtsten October, een duysent seeven hondert

*wee en tagtig.

(L. S.) GEORGE VAN RANDWYCK.

(L. S.) B. V. D. SANTHEUVEL.

(L. S. ) (L. S. ) (L. S.) (L. S. )

P. V. BLEISWYK. W. C. H. VAN LYNDEN. D. J. VAN HEECKEREN. JOAN VAN KUFFELER.

(L. s . ) F. G. VAN DEDEM, tot den Gelder.

(L. S.) H. TJASSENS. E2

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES
Between the United States of America, and his Britannic Majesty. (a)

ARTICLES

Nov. 30, 1782. Agreed upon , by and between Richard Oswald, Esquire, the Commissioner of His Britannic Majesty, for treating of Peace with the Commissioners of the United States of America, in Behalf of his said Majesty, on the one Part, and John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, and Henry Laurens, four ofthe Commissioners of the said States, for treating of Peace with the Commissioner of His said Majesty, on their Behalf, on the other Part, to be inserted in, and to constitute the Treaty of Peace, proposed to be concluded between the Crown of Great- Britain and the said United States ; but which Treaty is not to be concluded untill Terms of a Peace shall be agreed upon between Great-Britain and France ; and His Britannic Majesty shall be ready to conclude such Treaty accordingly.

WHEREAS reciprocal advantages and mutual convenience are found by experience to form the only permanent foundation of peace and friend-

(a)The Treaties and Conventions between the United States and Great Britain have been :

Articles agreed upon, by and between Richard Oswald, Esquire, the Commissioner of His Britannic

Majesty, for treating of peace with the Commissioners of the United States of America, in behalf of

his said Majesty, on the one part, and John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay, and Henry Laurens, four of the Commissioners of the said States, for treating of peace with the Commissioner of his said

Majesty, on their behalf, on the other part, to be inserted in, and to constitute the Treaty of Peace, pro-

posed to be concluded between the Crown of Great Britain and the said United States ; but which Treaty is not to be concluded until terms of peace shall be agreed upon between Great Britain and

France ; and His Britannic Majesty shall be ready to conclude such Treaty accordingly. Done at Paris, November 30, 1782.

Armistice, declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and Great Britain. Versailles,

January 20, 1783 ; post, 58.

Definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty. Done at

Paris, September 3, 1783 ; post, 80. Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of
America by their President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. November 19, 1794 ; post, 116. Additional article. Done at Philadelphia, May 4, 1796 ; post, 130. Second explanatory article. Done at London the 15th March, 1798 ; post, 131. Convention between the United States and Great Britain. Done at London, January 8, 1802 ; post, 196 .

Treaty of Peace and Amity between his Britannic Majesty and the United States. Negotiated at

Ghent, December 24, 1814. Ratified, February 17, 1815 ; post, 218. A convention to regulate commerce between the Territories of the United States and his Britannic

Majesty. London , July 3, 1815 ; post, 228. Arrangement limiting the number of American and British vessels of war to be maintained on the

Lakes. Washington, April, 1817 ; post, 231.

Convention with Great Britain. October 20, 1818 ; post, 248.

30

June,

Convention at St. Petersburg. Done at St. Petersburg, 12 day of 1822 ; post, 282. July,

Convention awarding the amount of indemnification under the St. Petersburg Convention. Novem-

ber 13, 1826 ; post , 344.

Convention regulating the reference between the United States and Great Britain on the settlement

of the boundary line described in the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent. September 29, 1827 ; post, 362.

Convention continuing the provision of the third article of the convention of the twentieth of October, 1818. August 6. 1827 ; post, 360.

Renewal of the commercial convention of third July, 1815. August 6, 1827 ; post , 361 .

Treaty between the United States of America and Great Britain. Washington , August 9, 1842 post, 572. And see Vol. ix. Stat. at Large.

(54)

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1782.

55

ship between states : it is agreed to form the articles of the proposed treaty, on such principles of liberal equity and reciprocity, as that partial advantages ( those seeds of discord) being excluded, such a beneficial and satisfactory intercourse between the two countries may be established, as to promise and secure to both perpetual peace and harmony.
ARTICLE I.

His Britannic Majesty acknowledges the said United States, viz. New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, to be free, sovereign and independent States ; that he treats with them as such ; and for himself, his heirs and successors, relinquishes all claims to the gouvernment, propriety and territorial rights of the same, and every part thereof. And that all disputes which might arise in future, on the subject of the boundaries of the said United States, may be prevented, it is hereby agreed and declared, that the following are, and shall be their boundaries, viz.

United States
acknowledged tvoerbeeigfnreaen,dsio-n dependent

ARTICLE II.

From the north-west angle of Nova-Scotia, viz. that angle which is formed by a line, drawn due north from the source of St. Croix river to the Highlands ; along the Highlands which divide those rivers , that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence, from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean, to the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river, thence down along the middle of that river, to the forty-fifth degree of north latitude ; from thence, by a line due west on said latitude, untill it strikes the river Iroquois or Cataraquy ; thence along the middle of said river into lake Ontario, through the middle of said lake until it strikes the communication by water between that lake and lake Erie ; thence along the middle of said communication into lake Erie, through the middle of said lake untill it arrives at the water-communication

Boundaries established.

between that lake and lake Huron ; thence along the middle of said water-communication into the lake Huron ; thence through the middle of said lake to the water-communication between that lake and lake

Superior ; thence through lake Superior northward of the isles Royal and Phelippeaux, to the Long Lake ; thence through the middle of said Long Lake, and the water-communication between it and the Lake of the Woods, to the said Lake of the Woods ; thence through the said lake to the most north-western point thereof, and from thence on a due west course to the river Missisippi ; thence by a line to be drawn along the middle of the said river Missisippi untill it shall intersect the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude. South by a line to be drawn due east from the determination of the line last men-

tioned, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees north of the Equator, to the middle of the river Apalachicola or Catahouchi ; thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river ; thence strait to the head of St. Mary's river ; and thence down along the middle of St. Mary's river to the Atlantic ocean. East by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river St. Croix, from its mouth in the Bay of Fundy to its source, and from its source directly north to the aforesaid Highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic ocean, from those which fall into the river St. Laurence ; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United States, and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries between Nova-Scotia on the one part, and EastFlorida on the other, shall respectively touch the Bay of Fundy and the Atlantic ocean ; excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have Deen within the limits of the said province of Nova-Scotia.

56

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1782.

Right of fishe ty secured.
Debts to be paid.

ARTICLE III.
It is agreed that the people of the United States shall continue to enjoy unmolested the right to take fish of every kind on the Grand Bank, and on all the other banks of Newfoundland ; also in the gulph of St. Lawrence, and at all other places in the sea, where the inhabitants of both countries used at any time heretofore to fish ; and also that the inhabitants of the United States shall have liberty to take fish of every kind on such part of the coast of Newfoundland as British fishermen shall use (but not to dry or cure the same on that island) ; and also on the coasts, bays and creeks of all other of his Britannic Majesty's dominions in America ; and that the American fishermen shall have liberty to dry and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks of Nova- Scotia, Magdalen islands, and Labrador, so long as the same shall remain unsettled ; but so soon as the same or either of them shall be settled, it shall not be lawful for the said fishermen to dry or cure fish at such settlement, without a previous agreement for that purpose with the inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the ground.
ARTICLE IV.
It is agreed that creditors on either side, shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted.

ARTICLE V.

Congress to

It is agreed that the Congress shall earnestly recommend it to the

rtheecostmamteesndresttoi- legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all tution of confis. estates, rights and properties, which have been confiscated, belonging cated estates. to real British subjects, and also of the estates, rights and properties of

persons resident in districts in the possession of his Majesty's arms, and

who have not borne arms against the said United States. And that

persons of any other description shall have free liberty to go to any part

or parts of any of the thirteen United States, and therein to remain twelve months, unmolested in their endeavours to obtain the restitution

of such of their estates, rights and properties, as may have been con-

fiscated ; and that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the

several states a reconsideration and revision of all acts or laws regard-

ing the premises, so as to render the said laws or acts perfectly con-

sistent, not only with justice and equity, but with that spirit of concilia-

tion, which on the return of the blessings of peace should universaly

prevail. And that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the

several states, that the estates, rights and properties of such last mentioned persons, shall be restored to them, they refunding to any persons

who may be now in possession, the bona fide price (where any has been

given) which such persons may have paid on purchasing any of the said

lands, rights and properties, since the confiscation. And it is agreed,

that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by

debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful

impediment in the prosecution of their just rights.

ARTICLE VI .

No further
confiscations or prosecutions.

That there shall be no future confiscations made, nor any prosecu tions commenced against any person or persons for, or by reason of the part which he or they may have taken in the present war ; and that no person shall on that account , suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person , liberty or property , and that those who may be in confine-

ment on such charges, at the time of the ratification of the treaty in America, shall be immediately set at liberty, and the prosecutions so commenced be discontinued.

PROVISIONAL ARTICLES WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1782.

57

ARTICLE VII.

There shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britannic Hostilities to

Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the one and tciesahsear, mainedsBtroithe citizens of the other, wherefore all hostilities both by sea and land be withdrawn.
shall then immediately cease : all prisoners on both sides shall be set at

liberty, and his Britannic Majesty shall with all convenient speed , and without causing any destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other

property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons and fleets from the said United States, and from every port, place

and harbour within the same ; leaving in all fortifications the American

artillery that may be therein ; and shall also order and cause all archives, records, deeds and papers, belonging to any of the said states, or their citizens, which in the course of the war may have fallen into the hands

of his officers, to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper states and persons to whom they belong.

ARTICLE VIII.

The navigation of the river Missisippi , from its source to the ocean, Navigation of

shall for ever remain free and open to the subjects of Great-Britain, and the Mississippi

the citizens of the United States.

to be free to

both nations.

ARTICLE IX.

In case it should so happen that any place or territory belonging to Conquests be

Great-Britain or to the United States, should be conquered by the arms fore arrival of

of either from the other, before the arrival of these articles in America,

these articles in America to be

it is agreed, that the same shall be restored without difficulty, and with- restored.

out requiring any compensation.

Done at Paris, the thirtieth day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two.

Witness,

RICHARD OSWALD, (L. S.)

JOHN ADAMS ,

L. S.

B. FRANKLIN ,

L. S.

JOHN JAY, HENRY LAURENS , CALEB WHITEFOORD, Secretary

(L. S. (s. s.)

to the British Commission.

W. T. FRANKLIN, Secretary to the American Commission.

SEPARATE ARTICLE.

It is hereby understood and agreed, that in case Great Britain, at the conclusion of the present war, shall recover, or be put in possession of West Florida, the line of north boundary between the said province and the United States shall be a line drawn from the mouth of the river

Yassous, where it unites with the Mississippi, due east, to the river Apalachicola.
Done at Paris, the thirtieth day of November, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two.

Attest,

CALEB

RICHARD OSWALD, (L. S. )

JOHN ADAMS ,

(L. S. )

B. FRANKLIN,

(L. S.)

JOHN JAY,

(L. S.

HENRY LAURENS , (L. S.)

WHITEFOORD, Secretary.

to the British Commission.

W. T. FRANKLIN , Secretary to the American Commission.

A true copy, examined and compared with the original by B. FRANKLIN.

Passy, December 4, 1782. VOL. VIII. 8

ARMISTICE
Declaring a cessation of hostilities between the United States and Great-Britain.

WE, the undersigned Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United States of North-America, having received from Mr. Fitz Herbert, Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic Majesty, a declaration, relative to a suspension of arms, to be established between his said Majesty and the said States , the tenor whereof is as follows :

Jan. 20, 1783. Ante, 54.

WHEREAS the preliminary articles agreed upon and signed this day, between his Majesty the King of Great-Britain and his Majesty the most Christian King on the one part, and likewise between his said Britannic Majesty and his Catholic Majesty on the other part, contain the stipulation of a cessation of hostilities between those three powers, which is to take place after the exchange of the ratifications of the said preliminary articles : AND WHEREAS, by the provisional treaty signed on the thirtieth day of November last , between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of North-America, it hath been stipulated, that that treaty should take effect as soon as peace should be established between the said crowns : The undersigned Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic Majesty, does declare, in the name and by the express order of the King, his master, that the said United States of North-America, their subjects and their possessions, shall be comprehended in the abovementioned suspension of arms, and that, in consequence, they shall enjoy the benefit of the cessation of hostilities, at the same epochs, and in the same manner as the three crowns above mentioned , their subjects, and their respective possessions ; the whole upon condition , that on the part and in the name of the said United States of North-America, a similar declaration shall be delivered expressly, declaring their assent to the present suspension of arms, and containing the assurance of the most perfect reciprocity on their part.

In faith whereof, we, the Minister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic
Majesty, have signed the present declaration, and have caused the seal of our arms to be thereto affixed.

Versailles, 20th January, 1783.

(Signed) (L. s. ) ALLEYNE FITZ HERBERT.

HAVE, in the name of the said United States of North-America, and by virtue of the powers with which they have vested us, accepted the above declaration, do by these presents merely and simply accept it,
and do reciprocally declare that the said States shall cause all hostilities to cease against his Britannic Majesty, his subjects and his possessions , at the terms and epochs agreed upon between his said Majesty the King of Great-Britain, his Majesty the King of France, and his Majesty the King of Spain, so, and in the same manner, as has been agreed between those three crowns, and to produce the same effects.

In faith whereof, we, the Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United (58)

ARMISTICE
Declarant une suspension d'armes entre les Etats Unis et la Grande Bretagne.
Nous soussignés Ministres Plenipotentiaires des États-Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale, aïant reçu de la part de M. Fitzherbert, Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majesté Britannique, une déclaration relative à une suspension d'armes à établir entre sa dite Majesté et les dits Etats, dont la teneur s'en suit :
COMME les articles preliminaires arrêtés et signés aujourd'hui entre sa Majesté le Roi de la Grande Bretagne et sa Majesté le Roi Très Chretien d'une part, et aussi entre sa dite Majesté Britannique et sa Majesté Catholique d'autre part, renferment la stipulation de la cessation des hostilités entre ces trois Puissances ; laquelle doit commencer après l'échange des ratifications des dits articles préliminaires : et comme par le traité provisionel signé le 30 Novembre dernier entre sa Majesté Britannique et les Etats-Unis de l'Amérique Septentrionale , il a été stipulé, que ce traité sortiroit son effet aussitôt que la paix entre les dites couronnes seroit retablie ; le soussigné Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majesté Britannique, declare au nom, et par ordre exprès du Roi son maitre, que les dits États-Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale, leurs sujets, et leurs possessions, seront compris dans la suspension d'armes susmentionnée, et qu'ils jouiront en consequence du benefice de la cessation des hostilités aux mêmes époques, et de la même maniere que les trois couronnes susdites, leurs sujets et leurs possessions respectives ; le tout à condition, que de la part et au nom des dits États-Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale , il soit delivré une déclaration semblable qui constate leur assentiment à la présente suspension d'armes et renferme l'assurance de la plus parfaite reciprocité de leur part.
En foi de quoi, nous Ministre Plenipotentiaire de sa Majesté Britannique, avons signé la présente déclaration et y avons fait apposer le cachet de nos armes.
A Versailles le 20, Jan. 1783. (L. s.) (Signé) ALLEYNE FITZ HERBERT.
AVONS au nom des dits États-Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale et en vertu des pouvoirs dont ils nous ont munis, accepté la déclaration ci-dessus, l'acceptons par ces présentes purement et simplement et declarons reciproquement que les dits Etats feront cesser toutes hostilités contre sa Majesté Britannique, ses sujets et ses possessions, aux termes et aux époques convenus entre sa dite Majesté le Roi de la Grande Bretagne, sa Majesté le Roi de France et sa Majesté le Roi d'Espagne, ainsi, et de la même maniere qu'il a été convenu entre ces trois couronnes, et pour produire le même effet.
En foi de quoi nous Ministres Plenipotentiaires des États-Unis de (59)

60

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

States North-America, have signed the present declaration, and have affixed thereto the seal of our arms.
Versailles, 20th ofJanuary, one thousand seven hundred and eightythree.
(Signed) JOHN ADAMS, (L. s.) B. FRANKLIN , (L. S.)

Copy of the first and twenty-second of the Preliminary Articles, between France and Great-Britain, signed at Versailles the twentieth January, 1783.
ART. 1. As soon as the preliminaries shall be signed and ratified , sincere friendship shall be re-established between his most Christian Majesty and his Britannic Majesty, their kingdoms, states, and subjects by sea and by land, in all parts of the world ; orders shall be sent to the armies and squadrons, as well as to the subjects of the two powers, to cease all hostilities, and to live in the most perfect union , forgetting the past, according to the order and example of their sovereigns ; and for the execution of this article, sea-passes shall be given on each side to the ships which shall be dispatched to carry the news to the possessions of the said powers.
ART. 22. To prevent all the causes of complaint and dispute which might arise on account of the prizes which may be taken at sea after the signing of these preliminary articles, it is reciprocally agreed, that the vessels and effects which may be taken in the Channel and in the North Seas, after the space of twelve days, to be computed from the ratification of the present preliminary articles, shall be restored on each side. That the term shall be of one month from the Channel and the
North Seas to the Canary Islands inclusively, whether in the Ocean or in the Mediterranean ; of two months from the said Canary Islands to the Equinoxial Line or Equator ; and lastly, of five months in all other parts of the world, without any exception, nor other more particular distinction of times and places.

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE ,

Concluded between his Majesty the King of Sweden and the United States of North-America. (a)

April 3, 1783.

THE King of Sweden , of the Goths and Vandals, & c. & c. & c. and the Thirteen United States of North-America ; to wit : New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island , Connecticut, New-York , NewJersey, Pennsylvania, the counties of New-Castle, Kent and Sussex on Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia, desiring to establish, in a stable and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be observed relative to the correspondence and commerce which the two parties have judged necessary to establish between their respective countries, states and subjects ; his Majesty and the United States have thought that they could not better accomplish that end, than by taking for a basis of their arrangements the mutual interest and advantage of both nations, thereby avoiding all those burthensome preferences, which are usually sources of debate, embarrass-

(a) The Treaties with Sweden have been : The Treaty of April 3, 1783. The Treaty of September 4, 1816 ; post, 232. The Treaty ofJuly 4 , 1827 ; post , 316.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

61

l'Amerique Septentrionale avons signé la présente déclaration et y avons apposé les cachets de nos armes.
À Versailles le vingt Janvier, mil sept cent quatre-vingt trois.
JOHN ADAMS, (L. s.) B. FRANKLIN , (L. S.)

Copie du premier et du vingt deuxieme des articles preliminaires entre la France et la Grande Bretagne, signés à Versailles le 20 Janvier, 1783.
ART. 1. Aussitôt que les preliminaires seront signés et ratifiés, l'amitié sincere sera retablie entre sa Majesté Très Chretienne et sa Majesté Britannique, leurs Royaumes, Etats et Sujets par nier et par terre, dans toutes les parties du monde ; il sera envoyé des ordres aux armées, et escadres, ainsi qu'aux sujets des deux Puissances de cesser toute hosti-
lité, et de vivre dans la plus parfaite union en oubliant le passé, dont leurs souverains leur donnent l'ordre et l'exemple ; et pour l'exécution de cet article, il sera donné, de part et d'autre des passeports de mer aux vaisseaux qui seront expediés pour en porter la nouvelle dans les possessions des dites puissances.
ART. 22. Pour prevenir tous les sujets de plaintes et de contestation qui pourroient naitre à l'occasion des prises qui pourroient être faites en mer depuis la signature de ces articles préliminaires, on est convenu reciproquement que les vaisseaux et effets qui pourroient être pris dans la Manche et dans les Mers du Nord, après l'espace de douze jours à compter depuis la ratification des présens articles préliminaires, seront de part et d'autre restitués ; Que le terme sera d'un mois depuis la Manche et les Mers du Nord, jusqu'aux Isles Canaries inclusivement, soit dans l'ocean , soit dans la Mediterrannée ; de deux mois depuis les dites Isles Canaries, jusqu'à la ligne Equinoxiale ou l'Equateur ; et enfin de cinq mois dans tous les autres endroits du monde, sans aucune exception ni autre distinction plus particuliere de tems et de lieux.

TRAITÉ D'AMITIÉ ET DE COMMERCE ,
Conclu entre sa Majesté le Roi de Suede et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique Septentrionale.
LE Roi de Suede des Goths et des Vandales, & c. & c. & c. et les treize Etats Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale, sçavoir, New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-York, NewJersey, Pensylvanie, les comtés de New-Castle, de Kent et de Sussex sur la Delaware, Maryland, Virginie, Caroline Septentrionale, Caroline Meridionale, et Georgie, desirant d'établir d'une maniere stable et permanente les regles qui doivent être suivies relativement à la correspondance et au commerce que les deux parties ont jugé necessaire de fixer entre leurs pays, états et sujets respectifs, sa Majesté et les États Unis ont cru ne pouvoir mieux remplir ce but qu'en posant pour base de leurs arrangemens, l'utilité et l'avantage reciproques des deux nations, en évitant toutes les prèferences onereuses qui sont ordinairement une source de discussions, d'embarras et de mecontentements ; et
F

62

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783 .

ment and discontent, and by leaving each party at liberty to make, respecting navigation and commerce, those interior regulations which shall be most convenient to itself.
With this view, his Majesty the King of Sweden has nominated and appointed for his plenipotentiary Count Gustavus Philip de Creutz , his ambassador extraordinary to his Most Christian Majesty, and knight commander of his orders ; and the United States, on their part, have fully empowered Benjamin Franklin , their minister plenipotentiary to his Most Christian Majesty : the said plenipotentiaries, after exchanging their full powers , and after mature deliberation in consequence thereof, have agreed upon, concluded and signed the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Peace and
friendship between the two nations.

There shall be a firm , inviolable and universal peace, and a true and sincere friendship between the King of Sweden , his heirs and successors, and the United States of America, and the subjects of his Majesty, and those of the said States, and between the countries, islands, cities, and towns situated under the jurisdiction of the King and of the said United States, without any exception of persons or places ; and the conditions agreed to in this present treaty, shall be perpetual and perma nent between the King, his heirs and successors, and the said United States.

ARTICLE II.

Neither party The King and the United States engage mutually, not to grant here-

ttoo gortahnetr fnaavtioounrss that shall not become com-
mon to the other party.

after any particular favour to other nations in respect to commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same favour freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation , if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE III.

Subjects of

The subjects of the King of Sweden shall not pay in the ports,

Sweden entitled havens, roads, countries, islands , cities and towns of the United States,

tvoiltehgeessianmUe.prSi.- or in any of them, any other nor greater duties or imposts of what as the most fa- nature soever they may be, than those which the most favoured nations
voured nations. are or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liber-

ties, privileges , immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and

commerce which the said nations do or shall enjoy, whether in passing

from one port to another of the United States, or in going to or from the same, from or to any part of the world whatever.

ARTICLE IV.
Citizens of the The subjects and inhabitants of the said United States shall not pay U.S. entitled to in the ports, havens, roads , islands , cities and towns under the dominion ltehgeessainmeSwperidvei-n of the King of Sweden, any other or greater duties or imposts of what as the most fa- nature soever they may be, or by what name soever called , than those voured nations. which the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged to pay ; and
they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce which the said nations do
or shall enjoy, whether in passing from one port to another of the dominion of his said Majesty, or in going to or from the same, from or to any part of the world whatever.

ARTICLE V.
Liberty ofcon- There shall be granted a full , perfect and entire liberty of conscience sccuireendc.e , & c. se- to the inhabitants and subjects of each party, and no person shall be
molested on account of his worship , provided he submits so far as regards the public demonstration of it to the laws of the country. Moreover, liberty shall be granted , when any of the subjects or inhabitants

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

63

en laissant à chaque partie la liberté de faire au sujet du commerce et de la navigation, les reglemens intérieurs qui seront à sa convenance.
Dans cette vue sa Majesté le Roi de Suede a nommé et constitué pour son plenipotentiaire le Comte Gustave Philippe de Creutz , son ambassadeur extraordinaire près sa Majesté très Chretienne et Chevalier commandeur de ses ordres ; et les Etats Unis ont de leur côté pourvû de leurs pleinpouvoirs le Sieur Benjamin Franklin, leur ministre plenipotentiaire près sa Majesté très Chretienne ; les quels, plenipotentiaires après avoir échangé leurs pleinpouvoirs et en conséquence d'une mure deliberation ont arrêté, conclu, et signé les articles suivants.
ARTICLE I. Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle et une amitié vraie et sincere entre le Roi de Suede, ses heritiers et successeurs, et entre les États Unis de l'Amerique, ainsi qu'entre les sujets de sa Majesté et ceux des dits États, comme aussi entre les pays, isles , villes et places, situées sous la jurisdiction du Roi, et des dits Etats Unis, sans exception aucune de personnes et de lieux ; les conditions stipulées dans le present traité devant être perpetuelles et permanentes entre le Roi, ses heritiers et successeurs et les dits Etats Unis.

ARTICLE II.
Le Roi et les États Unis s'engagent mutuellement à n'accorder par la suite aucune faveur particulière en fait de commerce et de navigation à d'autres nations, qui ne devienne aussitôt commune à l'autre partie ; et celle-cy jouira de cette faveur gratuitement si la concession est gratuite ; ou en accordant la même compensation si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE III.
Les sujets du Roi de Suede ne payeront dans les ports , havres , rades, contrées, isles, villes et places des Etats Unis, ou dans aucun d'iceux, d'autres ni de plus grands droits et impôts de quelque nature qu'ils puissent être, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont ou seront tenues de payer ; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertés, privileges, immunités et exemptions en fait de negoce, navigation et de commerce dont jouissent ou jouiront les dites nations, soit en passant d'un port à l'autre des dits États , soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit.
ARTICLE IV.
Les sujets et habitants des dits Etats Unis ne payeront dans les ports, havres, rades, isles, villes et places de la domination du Roi de Suede, d'autres ni de plus grands droits ou impôts, de quelque nature qu'ils puissent être et quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont ou seront tenues de payer ; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertés, priviléges, immunites, et exemptions en fait de negoce, navigation et commerce dont jouissent ou jouiront les dites nations, soit en passant d'un port à un autre de la domination de sa dite Majesté, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie du monde ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit.
ARTICLE V.
Il sera accordé une pleine, parfaite et entiere liberté de conscience aux habitants et sujets de chaque partie, et personne ne sera molesté à l'égard de son culte, moyennant qu'il se soumette, quant à la demonstration publique, aux loix du pays. De plus on permettra aux habitans et sujets de chaque partie, qui decedent dans le territoire de l'autre partie,

64

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

of either party die in the territory of the other, to bury them in convenient and decent places, which shall be assigned for the purpose ; and the two contracting parties will provide each in its jurisdiction, that the subjects and inhabitants respectively may obtain certificates of the death, in case the delivery of them is required.

Citizens may
dispose of estate, may inherit and may
remove their effects.

ARTICLE VI.
The subjects of the contracting parties in the respective states, may freely dispose of their goods and effects either by testament, donation or otherwise, in favour of such persons as they think proper ; and their heirs in whatever place they shall reside, shall receive the succession even ab intestato, either in person or by their attorney, without having occasion to take out letters of naturalization. These inheritances, as well as the capitals and effects, which the subjects of the two parties, in changing their dwelling, shall be desirous of removing from the place of their abode, shall be exempted from all duty called " droit de détraction," on the part of the government of the two states respectively. But it is at the same time agreed, that nothing contained in this article shall in any manner derogate from the ordinances published in Sweden against emigrations, or which may hereafter be published, which shall remain in full force and vigour. The United States on their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to make respecting this matter, such laws as they think proper.

ARTICLE VII.

Liberty for either party to
ttiroandeatwiwtahrawintah the other.

All and every the subjects and inhabitants of the kingdom of Sweden, as well as those of the United States, shall be permitted to navigate with their vessels in all safety and freedom , and without any regard to those to whom the merchandizes and cargoes may belong, from any

port whatever ; and the subjects and inhabitants of the two states shall likewise be permitted to sail and trade with their vessels, and with the same liberty and safety to frequent the places, ports and havens of

powers, enemies to both or either of the contracting parties, without being in any wise molested or troubled, and to carry on a commerce not only directly from the ports of an enemy to a neutral port, but even from one port of an enemy to another port of an enemy, whether it be under the jurisdiction of the same or of different princes. And as it

Free ships make free
goods ; except contraband articles.

is acknowledged by this treaty, with respect to ships and merchandizes, that free ships shall make merchandizes [ free, ] and that every thing which shall be on board of ships belonging to subjects of the one or the other of the contracting parties, shall be considered as free, even though the cargo or a part of it should belong to the enemies of one or both; it is nevertheless provided, that contraband goods shall always be excepted ; which being intercepted, shall be proceeded against according to the spirit of the following articles. It is likewise agreed, that the same liberty be extended to persons who may be on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either of the parties, they shall not be taken out of the free ship , unless they are soldiers in the actual service of the said enemies.

This liberty extends to all kinds of merchandize , except contraband.
What goods shall be deemed contraband.

ARTICLE VIII. This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandizes, except those only which are expressed in the following article, and are distinguished by the name of contraband goods.
ARTICLE IX. Under the name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended arms , great guns, cannon balls , arquebuses, musquets, mortars , bombs, petards, granadoes, saucisses, pitch balls, carriages for ordnance

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

65

d'être enterrés dans les endroits convenables et décents qui seront assignés à cet éffet, et les deux puissances contractantes pourvoiront chacune dans sa jurisdiction , à ce que les sujets et habitans respectifs puissent obtenir les certificats de mort en cas qu'il soit requis de les livrer.

ARTICLE VI.

Les sujets des parties contractantes pourront dans les états respectifs disposer librement de leurs fonds et biens, soit par testament, donation ou autrement en faveur de telles personnes que bon leur semblera, et leurs heritiers dans quelque endroit où ils demeureront, pourront recevoir ces successions, même ab intestato, soit en personne, soit par un procureur, sans qu'ils aient besoin d'obtenir des lettres de naturalisation.
Ces heritages, aussi bien que les capitaux et fonds que les sujets des deux parties, en changeant de demeure, voudront faire sortir de l'endroit
de leur domicile, seront exemts de tout droit de detraction, de la part du gouvernement des deux états respectifs. Mais il est convenu en même tems, que le contenu de cet article ne derogera en aucune maniere aux ordonnances promulguées en Suede contre les emigrations , ou qui pourront par la suite être promulguées, les quelles demeureront dans toute leur force et vigueur. Les Etats Unis de leur côté, ou aucun d'entre eux, seront libres de statuer sur cette matiere telle loi qu'ils jugeront à propos.
ARTICLE VII.

Il sera permis à tous et un chacun des sujets et habitans du Royaume de Suede, ainsi qu'à ceux des États Unis, de naviguer avec leurs bâtimens en toute sureté et liberté, et sans distinction de ceux à qui les marchandises et leurs chargemens appartiendront, de quelque port que ce soit. Il sera permis également aux sujets et habitans des deux Etats de naviguer et de négocier avec leurs vaisseaux et marchandises, et de frequenter avec la même liberté et sureté, les places, ports et havres des puissances ennemies des deux parties contractantes, ou de l'une d'elles, sans être aucunement inquietés ni troublés, et de faire le commerce non seulement directement dès ports de l'ennemi à un port neutre, mais encore d'un port ennemi à un autre port ennemi ; soit qu'il se trouve sous la jurisdiction d'un même ou de differents princes. Et comme il est reçu par le present traité par rapport aux navires et aux marchandises, que les vaisseaux libres rendront les marchandises libres, et que l'on regardera comme libre tout ce qui sera àbord des navires appartenants aux sujets d'une ou de l'autre des parties contractantes, quand même le chargement, ou partie d'icelui appartiendroit aux ennemis de l'un des deux ; bien entendu néanmoins que les marchandises de contrebande seront toujours exceptées ; les quelles étant interceptées, il sera procedé conformement à l'esprit des articles suivants. Il est également convenu que cette même liberté s'étendra aux personnes qui naviguent sur un vaisseau libre ; de maniere que quoi qu'elles soient ennemies des deux parties ou de l'une d'elles, elles ne seront point tirées du vaisseau libre, si ce n'est que ce fussent des gens de guerre actuellement au service des dits ennemis.

ARTICLE VIII.

Cette liberté de navigation et de commerce s'étendra à toutes fortes de marchandises, à la reserve seulement de celles qui sont exprimées dans l'article suivant et designées sous le nom de marchandises de contrebande.

ARTICLE IX.

On comprendra sous ce nom de marchandises de contrebande ou

defendues, les armes, canons, boulets, arquebuses, mousquets, mortiers,

bombes, petards, grenades, saucisses, cercles poissés, affuts, fourchettes,

VOL. VIII. 9

F2

66

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

musquet rests, bandoleers, cannon powder, matches, saltpetre, sulphur, bullets, pikes, sabres, swords , morions, helmets, cuirasses, halberds, javelins, pistols and their holsters, belts, bayonets, horses with their harness, and all other like kinds of arms and instruments of war for the use of troops.

ARTICLE X.

What goods shall not be deemed contra-
band .

These which foilow shall not be reckoned in the number of prohibited goods ; that is to say : All sorts of cloths, and all other manufactures of wool, flax, silk, cotton or any other materials, all kinds of wearing apparel, together with the things of which they are commonly made, gold, silver coined or uncoined, brass, iron, lead, copper, latten , coals, wheat, barley, and all sorts of corn or pulse, tobacco, all kinds of spices, salted and smoked flesh, salted fish, cheese, butter, beer, oyl , wines,
sugar, all sorts of salt and provisions which serve for the nourishment and sustenance of man, all kinds of coton, hemp, flax, tar, pitch , ropes, cables, sails, sail-cloth, anchors, and any parts of anchors, ship-masts, planks, boards, beams, and all sorts of trees and other things proper for building or repairing ships ; nor shall any goods be considered as contraband, which have not been worked into the form of any instrument
or thing for the purpose of war by land or by sea, much less such as have been prepared or wrought up for any other use all which shall be reckoned free goods, as likewise all others which are not comprehended and particularly mentioned in the foregoing article ; so that they shall not by any pretended interpretation be comprehended among prohibited or contraband goods ; on the contrary, they may be freely transported by the subjects of the King and of the United States, even to places belonging to an enemy, such places only excepted as are besieged, blocked or invested, and those places only shall be considered as such, which are nearly surrounded by one of the belligerent powers.

ARTICLE XI.

In case of war, In order to avoid and prevent on both sides all disputes and discord,

ships and vessels to be fur-

it is agreed, that in case one of the parties shall be engaged in a war,

nished with sea- the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or inhabitants of the

letters, and cer- other shall be furnished with sea-letters or passports, expressing the

tificates.

name, property and port of the vessel , and also the name and place of

abode of the master or commander of the said vessel, in order that it

may thereby appear that the said vessel really and truly belongs to the

subjects of the one or the other party. These passports, which shall be

drawn up in good and due form , shall be renewed every time the vessel

returns home in the course of a year. It is also agreed, that the said

vessels when loaded shall be provided not only with sea-letters, but also

with certificates containing a particular account of the cargo, the place

from which the vessel sailed , and that of her destination , in order that

it may be known whether they carry any of the prohibited or contraband merchandizes, mentioned in the 9th article of the present treaty ;

which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place from which the vessel shall depart.

ARTICLE XII.
Although the vessels of the one and of the other party may navigate freely and with all safety, as is explained in the 7th article, they shall nevertheless be bound at all times when required , to exhibit as well on

5

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

07

bandoulieres, poudre à canon, meches, salpetre, souffre, balles, piques, sabres, epées, morions, casques, cuirasses, halbardes, javelines, pistolets et leurs fourreaux, baudriers, bayonettes, chevaux avec leurs harnois, et tous autres semblables genres d'armes et d'instruments de guerre servant à l'usage des troupes.
ARTICLE X.
On ne mettra point au nombre des marchandises defendues celles qui suivent, sçavoir, toutes sortes de draps, et tous autres ouvrages de manufactures de laine, de lin , de soye, de cotton et de toute autre matiere, tout genre d'habillement avec les choses qui servent ordinairement à les faire ; Or, argent monnoyé ou nom monnoyé, etaim, fer, plomb, cuivre, laiton, charbon à fourneau , bled , orge, et toute autre sorte de grains et de legumes, la nicotiane, vulgairement appellée tabac, toutes sortes d'aromates, chairs salées et fumées, poissons salés, fromage et beurre, bierre, huile, vins, sucres, toutes sortes de sels et de provisions servant à la nourriture et à la subsistance des hommes ; tous genres de coton, chanvre, lin , poix, tant liquide que seche, cordages, cables, voiles, toiles, propres à faire des voiles, ancres et parties d'ancres quelles qu'elles puissent être, mats de navire, planches, madriers, poutres et toute sorte d'arbres, et toutes autres choses necessaires pour construire ou pour radouber les vaisseaux. On ne regardera pas non plus comme marchandises de contrebande, celles qui n'auront pas pris la forme de quelque instrument ou attirail, servant à l'usage de la guerre sur terre ou sur mer ; encore moins celles qui sont preparées ou travaillées pour tout autre usage. Toutes ces choses seront censées marchandises libres , de même que toutes celles qui ne sont point comprises et specialement designees dans l'article precedent, de sorte qu'elles ne pourront sous aucune interpretation pretendue d'icelles, être comprises sous les éffets prohibés, ou de contrebande ; au contraire elles pourront être librement transportées par les sujets du Roi et des États Unis, même dans les lieux ennemis, excepté seulement dans les places assiegées, bloquées ou investies ; et pour telles, seront tenues uniquement les places entourées de près par quelqu'une des puissances belligerantes.
ARTICLE XI.
Afin d'écarter et de prevenir de part et d'autre toutes sortes de discussions et de discorde, il a été convenu que dans le cas où l'une des deux parties se trouveroit engagée dans une guerre, les vaisseaux et batimens appertenants aux sujets ou habitans de l'autre devront être munis de lettres de mer ou passeports, exprimant le nom, la proprieté et le port du navire, ainsi que le nom et la demeure du maitre ou commandant du dit vaisseau afin qu'il apparoisse par là, que le dit vaisseau appartient réellement et veritablement aux sujets de l'une ou de l'autre partie. Ces passeports qui seront dressés et expediés en due et bonne forme, devront également être renouvellés toutes les fois que le vaisseau revient chez lui dans le cours de l'an. Il est encore convenu que ces
dits vaisseaux chargés devront être pourvus non seulement de lettres de mer, mais aussi de certificats contenant les details de la cargaison , le lieu d'où le vaisseau est parti et celui de sa destination, afin que l'on puisse connoitre s'ils ne portent aucune des marchandises defendues ou de contrebande specifiees dans l'article 9 du present traité, lesquels certificats seront également expediés par les officiers du lieu d'où le vaisseau sortira.
ARTICLE XII.
Quoique les vaisseaux de l'une et de l'autre partie pourront naviguer librement et avec toute sureté comme il est expliqué à l'article 7, ils seront néanmoins tenus toutes les fois qu'on l'exigera, d'exhiber tant en

68

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Vessels ifre-
hqiubiirtetdhsehiarlsleea-xletters, and certificates. If no contraband goods, may pass.

the high sea as in port, their passports and certificates above mentioned And not having contraband merchandize on board for an enemy's port, they may freely and without hindrance pursue their voyage to the place of their destination. Nevertheless, the exhibition of papers shall not be demanded of merchant-ships under the convoy of vessels of war, but credit shall be given to the word of the officer commanding the convoy.

ARTICLE XIII .

Mode of pro-
ceeding in case contraband goods are disCovered.

If on producing the said certificates, it be discovered that the vessel carries some of the goods which are declared to be prohibited or contraband, and which are consigned to an enemy's port, it shall not however be lawful to break up the hatches of such ships, nor to open any chest, coffers, packs, casks or vessels, nor to remove or displace the smallest part of the merchandizes, until the cargo has been landed in the presence of officers appointed for the purpose, and until an inventory thereof has been taken ; nor shall it be lawful to sell, exchange or alienate the cargo or any part thereof, until legal process shall have been had against the prohibited merchandizes , and sentence shall have passed declaring them liable to confiscation, saving nevertheless as well the ships themselves, as the other merchandizes which shall have been found therein, which by virtue of this present treaty are to be esteemed free, and which are not to be detained on pretence of their having been loaded with prohibited merchandize, and much less confiscated as lawful prize. And in case the contraband merchandize be only a part of the cargo, and the master of the vessel agrees, consents and offers to deliver them to the vessel that has discovered them, in that case the latter, after receiving the merchandizes which are good prize, shall immediately let the vessel go, and shall not by any means hinder her from pursuing her voyage to the place of her destination. When a vessel is taken and brought into any of the ports of the contracting parties, if upon examination she be found to be loaded only with merchandizes declared to be free, the owner or he who has made the prize, shall be bound to pay all costs and damages to the master of the vessel unjustly detained.

ARTICLE XIV.

Goods found
in an enemy's ship liable to be confiscated unless put on board before declaration of war, or within six months after.

It is likewise agreed that whatever shall be found to be laden by the subjects of either of the two contracting parties, on a ship belonging to the enemies of the other party, the whole effects, although not of the number of those declared contraband, shall be confiscated as if they belonged to the enemy, excepting nevertheless such goods and merchandizes as were put on board before the declaration of war, and even six months after the declaration, after which term none shall be pre-
sumed to be ignorant of it, which merchandizes shall not in any manner

be subject to confiscation, but shall be faithfully and specifically delivered to the owners, who shall claim or cause them to be claimed

before confiscation and sale, as also their proceeds , if the claim be made

within eight months, and could not be made sooner after the sale , which is to be public : provided nevertheless, that if the said merchandizes be

contraband, it shall not be in any wise lawful to carry them afterwards

to a port belonging to the enemy.

ARTICLE XV.
And that more effectual care may be taken for the security of the two contracting parties, that they suffer no prejudice by the men of war of the other party or by privateers, all captains and commanders of ships of his Swedish Majesty and of the United States, and all their

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.
pleine mer que dans les ports, leurs passeports et certificats cy dessus mentionnés. Et n'ayant pas chargé des marchandises de contrebande pour un port ennemi, ils pourront librement et sans empechement poursuivre leur voyage vers le lieu de leur destination. Cependant on n'aura point le droit de demander l'exhibition des papiers aux navires marchands convoyés par des vaisseaux de guerre ; mais on ajoutera foi à la parole de l'officier commandant le convoi.
ARTICLE XIII.
Si en produisant les dits certificats il fut decouvert que le navire porte quelques uns de ces effets qui sont declarés prohibés ou de contrebande, et qui sont consignés pour un port ennemi, il ne sera cependant pas permis de rompre les écoutilles des dits navires, ni d'ouvrir aucune caisse, coffre, malle, ballot et tonneau, ou d'en deplacer, ni d'en detourner la moindre partie des marchandises, jusqu'à ce que la cargaison ait été mise à terre en presence des officiers preposés à cet effet, et que l'inventaire en ait été fait. Encore ne sera t'il pas permis de vendre, échanger ou aliener la cargaison ou quelque partie d'icelle, avant qu'on aura procedé legalement au sujet des marchandises prohibées et qu'elles auront été declarées confiscables par sentence ; à la reserve néanmoins, tant des navires même que des autres marchandises qui y aurons été trouvées et qui en vertu du present traité doivent être censées libres ; lesquelles ne peuvent être retenues sous pretexte qu'elles ont été chargées avec des marchandises defendues, et encore moins être confisquées comme une prise legitime. Et supposé que les dites marchandises de contrebande, ne faisant qu'une partie de la charge, le patron du navire agréat, consentit et offrit de les livrer au vaisseau qui les aura decouvertes ; en ce cas, celui cy, apres avoir reçu les marchandises, de bonne prise, sera tenu de laisser aller aussitôt le bâtiment, et ne l'empechera en aucune maniere de poursuivre sa route vers le lieu de sa destination. Tout navire pris et amené dans un des ports des parties contractantes, sous pretexte de contrebande, qui se trouve par la visite faite n'être chargé que de marchandises declarées libres, l'armateur ou celui qui aura fait la prise, sera tenu de payer tous les frais et dommages au patron du navire retenu injustement.
ARTICLE XIV.
On est également convenu que tout ce qui se trouvera chargé par les sujets d'une des deux parties dans un vaisseau appartenant aux ennemis de l'autre partie, sera confisqué en entier, quoique ces effets ne soient pas au nombre de ceux declarés de contrebande, comme si ces effets appartenoient à l'ennemi même ; à l'exception néanmoins des éffets et marchandises qui auront été chargées sur des vaisseaux ennemis avant la declaration de guerre, et même six mois après la declaration, après lequel terme, l'on ne sera pas censé d'avoir pu l'ignorer ; les quelles marchandises ne seront en aucune maniere sujettes à confiscation, mais seront rendues en nature fidelement aux proprietaires qui les reclameront ou feront reclamer avant la confiscation et vente ; comme aussi leur provenu, si la reclamation ne pouvoit se faire que dans l'intervalle de huit mois après la vente, laquelle doit être publique ; bien entendu néanmoins, que si les dites marchandises sont de contrebande , il ne sera nullement permis de les transporter ensuite à aucun port appartenant aux ennemis.
ARTICLE XV.
Et afin de pourvoir plus efficacement à la sureté des deux parties contractantes, pour qu'il ne leur soit fait aucun prejudice par les vaisseaux de guerre de l'autre partie ou par des armateurs particuliers , il sera fait defense à tous les capitaines et commandants de vaisseaux de

70

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Vessels of war
ashnadllpdriovantoeeirnsjury to either party ; if they do, to be punished and make reparation.

subjects, shall be forbid to do any injury or damage to those ofthe other party, and if they act to the contrary, having been found guilty on examination by their proper judges, they shall be bound to make satisfaction for all damages and the interest thereof, and to make them good under pain and obligation of their persons and goods.
ARTICLE XVI.

Every person fitting out a privateer, shall ,be fore he receives commission, give bond to answer all damages.

For this cause, every individual who is desirous of fitting out a privateer, shall before he receives letters patent, or special commission, be obliged to give bond with sufficient sureties, before a competent judge, for a sufficient sum, to answer all damages and wrongs which the owner of the privateer, his officers or others in his employ may commit during the cruise, contrary to the tenor of this treaty, and contrary to the edicts published by either party, whether by the King of Sweden or by the

United States, in virtue of this same treaty, and also under the penalty

of having the said letters patent and special commission revoked and made void.

ARTICLE XVII.

One of the contracting parties being at war and the other remaining

Re -captured vessels in cer-

neuter, if it should happen that a merchant ship of the neutral power

tain cases to be be taken by the enemy of the other party, and be afterwards retaken by

restored.

a ship of war or privateer of the power at war, also ships and merchan-

dizes of what nature soever they may be, when recovered from a pirate

or sea rover, shall be brought into a port of one of the two powers, and

shall be committed to the custody of the officers of the said port, that

they may be restored entire to the true proprietor as soon as he shall

have produced full proof of the property. Merchants, masters and

owners of ships, seamen, people of all sorts, ships and vessels, and in

Vessels not to be detained.

general all merchandizes and effects of one of the allies or their subjects, shall not be subject to any embargo, nor detained in any of the countries, territories, islands, cities, towns, ports, rivers, or domains whatever, of the other ally, on account of any military expedition , or

any public or private purpose whatever, by seizure, by force, or by any such manner ; much less shall it be lawful for the subjects of one of the parties to seize or take any thing by force, from the subjects of the other party, without the consent of the owner. This however is not to

be understood to comprehend seizures, detentions and arrests, made by order and by the authority of justice, and according to the ordinary course for debts or faults of the subject, for which process shall be had in the way of right according to the forms ofjustice.

ARTICLE XVIII.

Regulations in case both na.
tatiownsarshwoiutlhdabe common enemy.

If it should happen that the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war at the same time with a common enemy, the following points shall be observed on both sides.
1st. If the ships of one ofthe two nations, re-taken by the privateers of the other, have not been in the power of the enemy more than twentyfour hours, they shall be restored to the original owner, on payment of one-third of the value of the ship and cargo. If, on the contrary, the vessel retaken has been more than twenty-four hours in the power of the enemy, it shall belong wholly to him who has retaken it.
2d. In case, during the interval of twenty-four hours, a vessel be retaken by a man of war of either of the two parties, it shall be restored to the original owner, on payment of a thirtieth part of the value of the vessel and cargo, and a tenth part of it has been retaken after the twenty-four hours, which sums shall be distributed as a gratification among the crew of the men of war that shall have made the recapture.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

71

sa Majesté Suédoise et des Etats Unis, et tous leurs sujets, de faire aucun dommage ou insulte à ceux de l'autre partie ; et au cas qu'ils y contreviennent, ayant été trouvés coupables, après l'examen fait par leurs propres juges, ils seront tenus de donner satisfaction de tout dommage et intérêt ; et de les bonifier sous peine et obligation de leurs personnes et biens.
ARTICLE XVI.
Pour cette cause chaque particulier, voulant armer en course sera obligé, avant que de recevoir les patentes ou ses commissions speciales, de donner par devant un juge competent, caution de personnes solvables, chacun solidairement pour une somme suffisante, afin de repondre de tous les dommages et torts que l'armateur, ses officiers, ou autres étant à son service, pourroient faire en leurs courses, contre la teneur du present traité et contre les edits faits de part et d'autre en vertu du même traité par le Roi de Suede et par les Etats Unis, même sous peine de revocation et cassation des dites patentes et commissions spéciales.
ARTICLE XVII.
Une des parties contractantes etant en guerre, et l'autre restant neutre, s'il arrivoit qu' un navire marchand de la puissance neutre fut pris par l'ennemi de l'autre partie, et repris ensuite par un vaisseau ou par un armateur de la puissance en guerre ; de même que les navires et marchandises de quelle nature qu'elles puissent être lors qu'elles auront été enlevées des mains de quelque pirate ou ecumeur de mer, elles seront emmenées dans quelque port de l'un des deux États, et seront remises à la garde des officiers du dit port, afin d'être rendus en entier à leur veritable proprietaire, aussitôt qu'il aura produit des preuves suffisantes de la proprieté. Les marchands, patrons et proprietaires des navires, matelots, gens de toute sorte, vaisseaux et batimens et en general aucunes marchandises ni aucuns effets de chacun des alliés ou de
leurs sujets, ne pourront être assujetis à aucun embargo, ni retenus dans aucun des pays, territoires, isles, villes, places, ports, rivages ou domaines quelconques de l'autre allié, pour quelque expedition militaire, usage public ou particulier de qui que ce soit, par saisie, par force ou de quelque maniere semblable. D'autant moins sera t'il permis aux sujets de chacune des parties de prendre, ou enlever par force, quelque chose aux sujets de l'autre partie, sans le consentement du propriétaire ; ce qui néanmoins, ne doit pas s'entendre des saisies, detentions et arrets qui se feront par ordre et autorité de la justice et selon les voyes ordinaires pour dettes ou delits, au sujet desquels il devra être procedé par voye de droit selon les formes de justice.
ARTICLE XVIII.
S'il arrivoit que les deux parties contractantes fussent en même tems en guerre contre un ennemi commun, on observera de part et d'autre les points suivants.
1. Si les batimens de l'une des deux nations repris par les armateurs de l'autre n'ont pas été au pouvoir de l'ennemi, au delà de 24 heures, ils seront restitués au premier proprietaire, moyennant le payement du tiers de la valeur du batiment et de celle de la cargaison. Si au contraire le vaisseau repris a été plus de 24 heures au pouvoir de l'ennemi, il appartiendra en entier à celui qui l'aura repris.
2. Dans le cas que dans l'intervalle de 24 heures un navire est repris par un vaisseau de guerre de l'une des deux parties, il sera rendu au premier propriétaire, moyennant qu'il paye un trentieme de la valeur du navire et de sa cargaison, et le dixieme , s'il a été repris après les 24 heures, les quelles sommes seront distribuées en guise de gratification aux equipages des vaisseaux qui l'auront repris.

72

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

3d. The prizes made in manner above mentioned, shall be restored to the owners, after proof made of the property, upon giving security for the part coming to him who has recovered the vessel from the hands of the enemy.
4th. The men of war and privateers of the two nations shall reciprocally be admitted with their prizes into each other's ports ; but the prizes shall not be unloaded or sold there until the legality of a prize made by Swedish ships shall have been determined according to the laws and regulations established in Sweden, as also that of the prizes made by American vessels shall have been determined according to the laws and regulations established by the United States of America.
5th. Moreover, the King of Sweden and the United States of America shall be at liberty to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary respecting the conduct which their men of war and privateers respectively shall be bound to observe, with regard to vessels which they shall take and carry into the ports of the two powers.

ARTICLE XIX .

Ships of war,
and privateers, may bring prizes into ports of either party.

The ships of war of his Swedish Majesty and those of the United States, and also those which their subjects shall have armed for war, may with all freedom conduct the prizes which they shall have made
from their enemies into the ports which are open in time of war to other friendly nations ; and the said prizes upon entering the said ports shall not be subject to arrest or seizure, nor shall the officers of the places take cognizance of the validity of the said prizes, which may depart and be conducted freely and with all liberty to the places pointed out in their commissions, which the captains of the said vessels shall be obliged to shew.

ARTICLE XX.

In case of ship- In case any vessel belonging to either of the two States, or to their swhraellckbe, raeflfioerfd- subjects, shall be stranded, shipwrecked, or suffer any other damage on

ed, and goods the coasts or under the dominion of either of the parties, all aid and

restored.

assistance shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or who may be in

danger thereof, and passports shall be granted to them to secure their return to their own country. The ships and merchandizes wrecked, or

their proceeds, if the effects have been sold, being claimed in a year

and a day, by the owners or their attorney, shall be restored, on their paying the costs of salvage, conformable to the laws and customs ofthe two nations.

ARTICLE XXI.

When vessels
shall be forced by stress of weather, & c. into ports, & c. they shall be protected , and
permitted to depart.

When the subjects and inhabitants of the two parties, with their vessels, whether they be public and equipped for war, or private or employed in commerce, shall be forced by tempest, by pursuit of priva teers and of enemies, or by any other urgent necessity, to retire and enter any of the rivers, bays, roads or ports of either of the two parties, they shall be received and treated with all humanity and politeness, and they shall enjoy all friendship, protection and assistance, and they shall be at liberty to supply themselves with refreshments, provisions and every thing necessary for their sustenance, for the repair of their vessels, and for continuing their voyage ; provided allway that they pay a reasonable price and they shall not in any manner be detained or hindered from sailing out of the said ports or roads, but they may retire and depart when and as they please, without any obstacle or hindrance.

ARTICLE XXII.
In order to favour commerce on both sides as much as possible, it is agreed, that in case a war should break out between the said two nations,

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

73

3 Les prises faites de la maniere susdite seront restituées aux proprietaires, après les preuves faites de la proprieté, en donnant caution pour la part qui en revient à celui qui à tiré le navire des mains de l'ennemi.
4. Les vaisseaux de guerre et armateurs des deux nations seront reciproquement admis avec leurs prises, dans les ports respectifs de chacune, mais ces prises ne pourront y être dechargées ni vendues qu'après que la legitimité de la prise faite par des batimens Suedois aura été decidée selon les loix et réglemens établis en Suede ; tout comme celle des prises faites par des batimens Americains, sera jugée selon les loix et réglemens determinés par les États Unis de l'Amerique.
5. Au surplus il sera libre au Roi de Suede, ainsi qu'aux États Unis de l'Amerique de faire tels reglemens qu'ils jugeront necessaires relativement à la conduite que devront tenir leurs vaisseaux et armateurs respectifs, à l'égard des batimens qu'ils auront pris et conduits dans les ports des deux puissances.
ARTICLE XIX .
Les vaisseaux de guerre de sa Majesté Suedoise et ceux des États Unis, de même que ceux que leurs sujets auront armés en guerre, pourront, en toute liberté conduire les prises qu'ils auront faites sur leurs ennemis, dans les ports ouverts en tems de guerre aux autres nations amies, sans que ces prises, entrant dans les dits ports, puissent être arretées ou saisies, ni que les officiers des lieux puissent prendre conoissance de la validité de dites prises, les quelles pourront sortir et être conduites franchement et en toute liberté aux lieux portés par les commissions, dont les capitaines des dits vaisseaux seront obligés de faire montre.
ARTICLE XX .

Au cas que quelque vaisseau appartenant à l'un des deux etats, ou à leurs sujets aura échoué, fait naufrage ou souffert quelque autre dommage sur les côtes ou sous la domination de l'une des deux parties, il sera donné toute aide et assistance aux personnes naufragées ou qui se trouvent en danger, et il leur sera accordé des passeports pour assurer leur retour dans leur patrie. Les navires et marchandises naufragées ou leur provenu, si ces effets eussent été vendus , étant reclamés dans l'an et jour par les propriétaires, ou leur ayant cause, seront réstitués, en payant les fraix du sauvement, conformement aux loix et coutumes des deux nations.

ARTICLE XXI.

Lorsque les sujets et habitants de l'une des deux parties avec leurs vaisseaux soit publics, soit équipés en guerre, soit particuliers, ou employés au commerce, seront forcés, par une tempête, par la poursuite des corsaires et des ennemis, ou par quelqu'autre necessité urgente, de se retirer et d'entrer dans quelqu'une des rivières, bayes, rades ou ports de l'une des deux parties, ils seront reçus et traités avec humanité et honnêteté, et jouiront de toute amitié, protection et assistance , et il leur sera permis de se pourvoir de rafraichissemens, de vivres et de toutes choses necessaires pour leur subsistance, pour la reparation de leurs vaisseaux et pour continuer leur voyage, le tout moyennant un prix raisonable, et ils ne seront retenus en aucune maniere, ni empêchés de sortir des dits ports ou rades, mais pourront se retirer et partir quand , et comme il leur plaira, sans aucun obstacle ni empéchement.

ARTICLE XXII.

Afin de favoriser d'autant plus le commerce des deux côtés , il est

convenu que dans le cas où la guerre surviendroit entre les deux nations

VOL. VIII. 10

G

74

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

In case of war, nine months shall be allowed to citizens to sell and transport their effects.

which God forbid, the term of nine months after the declaration of war shall be allowed to the merchants and subjects respectively on one side and the other, in order that they may withdraw with their effects and moveables, which they shall be at liberty to carry off or to sell where they please, without the least obstacle ; nor shall any seize their effects, and much less their persons, during the said nine months ; but on the contrary, passports which shall be valid for a time necessary for their return, shall be given them for their vessels, and the effects which they

shall be willing to carry with them. And if any thing is taken from them, or if any injury is done to them by one of the parties, their people and subjects, during the term above prescribed, full and entire satisfaction shall be made to them on that account. The above-mentioned

passports shall also serve as a safe conduct against all insults or prizes which privateers may attempt against their persons and effects.

ARTICLE XXIII.

Citizens of neither party
smhiaslsliotnask,e ocrolmet-ters of marque

No subject of the King of Sweden shall take a commission or letters of marque for arming any vessel to act as a privateer against the United States of America, or any of them, or against the subjects, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or any of them, or against the

from any prince, or state, with

property of the inhabitants of the said States, from

any prince or state

whom the other whatever, with whom the said United States shall be at war. Nor shall

is at war.

any citizen, subject or inhabitant of the said United States, or any of

them, apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for arming any vessel to cruize against the subjects of his Swedish Majesty, or any of them , or their property, from any prince or state whatever with whom His said Majesty shall be at war. And if any person of either nation

shall take such commissions or letters of marque, he shall be punished

as a pirate.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Ships and vessels coming on the coast, or entering the ports of either party, how to
be treated.

The vessels of the subjects of either of the parties coming upon any coast belonging to the other, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port, and not willing to unload their cargoes or to break bulk, shall not be obliged to do it, but on the contrary, shall enjoy all the franchises and exemptions which are granted by the rules subsisting with respect to that object.

ARTICLE XXV.

How ships are to be treated when met by
ships of war, or privateers.

When a vessel belonging to the subjects and inhabitants of either of the parties, sailing on the high sea, shall be met by a ship of war or privateer of the other, the said ship of war or privateer, to avoid all disorder, shall remain out of cannon shot, but may always send their boat to the merchant ship , and cause two or three men to go on board of her, to whom the master or commander of the said vessel shall exhibit his passport, stating the property of the vessel ; and when the said vessel
shall have exhibited her passport, she shall be at liberty to continue her voyage, and it shall not be lawful to molest or search her in any manner, or to give her chace or force her to quit her intended course.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Consuls, & c. to be allowed
in the ports of each nation.

The two contracting parties grant mutually the liberty of having each in the ports ofthe other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries, whose functions shall be regulated by a particular agreement.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

75

susdites, ce qu'à Dieu ne plaise, il sera accordé un tems de neuf mois apres la declaration de guerre, aux marchands et sujets respectifs de part et d'autre, pour pouvoir se retirer avec leurs effets et meubles, lesquels ils pourront transporter, ou faire vendre, où ils voudront, sans qu'on y mette le moindre obstacle, ni qu'on puisse arrêter les éffets, et encore moins les personnes pendant les dits neuf mois ; mais qu'au contraire on leur donnera, pour leurs vaisseaux et éffets qu'ils voudront prendre avec eux, des passeports valables pour le tems qui sera necessaire pour leur retour ; mais s'il leur est enlevé quelque chose, ou s'il leur a été fait quelqu' injure, durant le terme prescrit cy dessus, par l'une des parties, leurs peuples et sujets, il leur sera donné à cet égard pleine et entiere satisfaction. Ces passeports susmentionnés serviront également de saufconduits contre toutes insultes ou prises que les armateurs pourront intenter de faire contre leurs personnes et leurs effets.
ARTICLE XXIII.
Aucun sujet du Roi de Suede ne prendra de commission ou lettre de marque pour armer quelque vaisseau, afin d'agir comme corsaire contre les Etats Unis de l'Amerique ou quelques uns d'entre eux, ou contre les sujets, peuples, ou habitans d'iceux , ou contre la proprieté des habitans de ces Etats, de quelque prince ou état que ce soit, avec lequel ces dits Etats Unis seront en guerre. De même, aucun citoyen, sujet ou habitant des dits États Unis, et de quelqu'un d'entre eux, ne demandera ni n'acceptera aucune commission ou lettre de marque, afin d'armer quelque vaisseau pour courre sus aux sujets de sa Majesté Suedoise ou quelqu'un d'entre eux ou leur propriété, de quelque prince ou état que ce soit avec qui sa dite Majesté se trouvera en guerre. Et si quelqu'un de l'une ou de l'autre nation prenoit de pareilles commissions ou lettres de marque, il sera puni comme pirate.

ARTICLE XXIV.
Les vaisseaux des sujets ou habitans d'une des deux parties , abordant à quelque côte de la dependance de l'autre, mais n'ayant point dessein d'entrer au port, ou y étant entré, ne desirant pas de décharger leur cargaison ou rompre leur charge, n'y seront point obligés, mais au contraire jouiront de toutes les franchises et exemtions accordées par les reglemens qui subsistent relativement à cet objet.

ARTICLE XXV.
Lorsqu'un vaisseau appartenant aux sujets et habitans de l'une des deux parties, naviguant en pleine mer, sera rencontré par un vaisseau de guerre ou armateur, de l'autre, le dit vaisseau de guerre ou armateur, pour éviter tout desordre, se tiendra hors de la portée du canon, mais pourra toutes fois envoyer sa chaloupe àbord du navire marchand et y faire entrer deux ou trois hommes, auxquels le maitre ou commandant du dit navire, montrera son passeport, qui constate la proprieté du navire ; et après que le dit batiment aura exhibé le passeport, il lui sera libre de continuer son voyage ; et il ne sera pas permis de le molester ni de chercher en aucune maniere à lui donner la chasse ou à le forcer de quitter la course qu'il s'etoit proposé.
ARTICLE XXVI.
Les deux parties contractantes se sont accordé mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs des consuls, vice-consuls, agents et commissaires, dont les fonctions seront reglées par une convention particuliére.

76

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

Ratification.

ARTICLE XXVII.
The present treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of eight months, or sooner if possible, counting from the day of the signature.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, and have thereto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris the third day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (L. s.)

B. FRANKLIN.

(L. S.

Separate Article.

Time of dura. tion.

The King of Sweden and the United States of North-America, agree that the present treaty shall have its full effect for the space of fifteen years, counting from the day of the ratification , and the two contracting parties reserve to themselves the liberty of renewing it at the end of that term .

Done at Paris, the third day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. ( L. S.)

B. FRANKLIN .

(L. S.

Separate Articles.

ARTICLE I.

King of Sweden to protect vessels and ef-
foefcUts. oSf.citizens

His Swedish Majesty shall use all the means in his power to protect and defend the vessels and effects belonging to citizens or inhabitants of the United States of North America, and every of them, which shall be in the ports, havens, roads, or on the seas near the countries, islands, cities and towns of His said Majesty, and shall use his utmost endeavours to recover and restore to the right owners, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken from them within his jurisdiction.

ARTICLE II.

U. S. to protect vessels , and effects of sub-
jects of Sweden.

In like manner, the United States of North America shall protect and defend the vessels and effects belonging to the subjects of His
Swedish Majesty, which shall be in the ports, havens, or roads, or on the seas near to the countries, islands, cities and towns of the said States, and shall use their utmost efforts to recover and restore to the right owners, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken from them within their jurisdiction.

ARTICLE III.

In case of war
at sea, ships of war to protect and assist vessels of each nation.

If in any future war at sea, the contracting powers resolve to remain neuter, and as such, to observe the strictest neutrality, then it is agreed, that if the merchant-ships of either party should happen to be in a part of the sea where the ships of war of the same nation are not stationed, or ifthey are met on the high sea, without being able to have recourse to their own convoys, in that case the commander of the ships of war of the other party, if required, shall in good faith and sincerity give them all necessary assistance ; and in such case, the ships of war and

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

77

ARTICLE XXVII .
Le present traité sera ratifié de part et d'autre et les ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace de huit mois, ou plustôt, si faire se peut, à compter du jour de la signature.

En foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles cy dessus et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait à Paris le trois Avril, l' an de Grâce mil sept cent quatre vingt trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (L. S.)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(L. S.)

Article Separé.
Le Roi de Suede et les États Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale sont convenus que le present traité aura son plein effet pendant l'espace de quinze ans consecutifs, à compter du jour de sa ratification ; et les deux parties contractantes se reservent la faculté de le renouveller au bout de ce tems.

Fait à Paris le trois Avril, l an de Grâce mil sept cent quatre vingt trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (L.B

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

(L. S.)

Articles Separés.
ARTICLE I.
Sa Majesté Suedoise fera usage de tous les moyens qui sont dans son pouvoir pour proteger et défendre les vaisseaux et effets, appartenans aux citoyens ou habitans des Etats Unis de l'Amerique Septentrionale et à chacun d'iceux , qui seront dans les ports, havres ou rades ou dans les mers près des pais, isles, contrées, villes et places de sa dite Majesté, et sera tous ses efforts pour récouvrer et faire restituer aux proprietaires legitimes tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans l'etendue de sa jurisdiction.
ARTICLE II.
De même les Etats Unis de l'Amérique Septentrionale protegeront et defendront les vaisseaux et effets, appartenans aux sujets de sa Majesté Suedoise qui seront dans les ports, havres ou rades, ou dans les mers près des païs, isles, contrees, villes et places des dits Etats, et feront tous leurs efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux proprietaires légitimes, tous les vaisseaux et effets qui leur seront pris dans l'etendue de leur jurisdiction.
ARTICLE III.
Si durant une guerre maritime à venir, les deux puissances contractantes prennent le parti de rester neutres et d'observer, comme telles, la plus exacte neutralité , alors on est convenu que s'il arrivoit que les vaisseaux marchands de l'un des puissances, se trouvassent dans un parage où les vaisseaux de guerre de la même nation ne fussent pas stationnés, ou bien s'ils se rencontrent en pleine mer sans pouvoir avoir recours à leurs propres convois, dans ce cas le commandant des vaisseaux de guerre de l'autre puissance , s'il en est requis, doit de bonne
G2

78

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

frigates of either of the powers shall protect and support the merchant. ships ofthe other ; provided nevertheless, that the ships claiming assistance are not engaged in any illicit commerce contrary to the principle of the neutrality.

ARTICLE IV.

Regulations to transact business by citizens
of one party in the dominions of the other.

It is agreed and concluded that all merchants, captains of merchantships or other subjects of His Swedish Majesty, shall have full liberty in all places under the dominion or jurisdiction of the United States of America, to manage their own affairs, and to employ in the manage ment of them, whomsoever they please ; and they shall not be obliged

to make use of any interpreter or broker, nor to pay them any reward

unless they make use of them . Moreover, the masters of ships shall not

be obliged, in loading or unloading their vessels, to employ labourers

appointed by public authority for that purpose ; but they shall be at full

liberty, themselves, to load or unload their vessels , or to employ in

loading or unloading them whomsoever they think proper, without paying reward under the title of salary to any other person whatever ; and

they shall not be obliged to turn over any kind of merchandizes to other

vessels, nor to receive them on board their own , nor to wait for their

lading longer than they please ; and all and every of the citizens , people and inhabitants of the United States of America shall reciprocally have

and enjoy the same privileges and liberties in all places, under the jurisdiction of the said realm.

ARTICLE V.

No vessels to

It is agreed that when merchandizes shall have been put on board

be searched un- the ships or vessels of either of the contracting parties, they shall not less in case of
fraud. Regula- be subjected to any examination ; but all examination and search must

tions in such be before lading, and the prohibited merchandizes must be stopped on

case .

the spot before they are embarked, unless there is full evidence or proof

of fraudulent practice on the part of the owner of the ship , or of him who has the command of her ; in which case , only he shall be responsi-

ble and subject to the laws of the country in which he may be. In all

other cases, neither the subjects of either of the contracting parties,

who shall be with their vessels in the ports of the other, nor their merchandizes, shall be seized or molested on account of contraband

goods, which they shall have wanted to take on board , nor shall any

kind of embargo be laid on their ships, subjects or citizens of the state whose merchandizes are declared contraband, or the exportation of

which is forbidden ; those only who shall have sold or intended to sell

or alienate such merchandize, being liable to punishment for such contravention.

Done at Paris , the third day of April, in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (L. s. )

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN .

(L. S. )

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1783.

79

foi et sincerement leur prêter les secours dont ils pourront avoir besoin, et en tel cas les vaisseaux de guerre et fregates de l'une des puissances serviront de soutien et d'appui aux vaisseaux marchands de l'autre : bien entendu cependant, que les reclamans n'auroient fait aucun commerce illicite ni contraires aux principes de la neutralité.
ARTICLE IV.
Il est convenu et arrêté que tous les marchands, capitaines des navires marchands ou autres sujets de sa Majesté Suedoise, auront l'entiere liberté dans toutes les places de la domination ou jurisdiction des Etats Unis de l'Amerique, de conduire eux-mêmes leurs propres affaires, et d'employer qui il leur plaira pour les conduire, et qu'ils ne seront point obligés de se servir d'aucun interprete ou courtier, ni leur payer aucun honoraire à moins qu'ils ne s'en servent. En outre, les maitres des navires ne seront point obligés, chargeant ou dechargeant leurs navires, de se servir des ouvriers qui peuvent être établis pour cet effet par l'autorite publique ; mais ils seront entierement libres de charger ou de decharger eux mêmes leurs vaisseaux et d'employer pour charger ou decharger ceux qu'ils croiront propres pour cet effet, sans payer aucuns honoraires à titre de salaire à aucune autre personne que ce soit, et ils ne pourront être forcés de verser aucune espece de marchandises dans d'autres vaisseaux ou de les recevoir à leur bord, et d'attendre pour être chargés, plus long tems qu'il ne leur plaira ; et tous et un chacun des citoyens, peuples et habitans des Etats Unis de l'Amerique auront et jouiront reciproquement des mêmes privileges et libertés dans toutes les places de la jurisdiction du dit royaume.

ARTICLE V.

Il est convenu que lorsque les marchandises auront été chargées sur les vaisseaux ou bâtimens de l'une des deux parties contractantes, elles ne pourront plus être assujetties à aucune visite ; toute visite et recherche devant être faite avant le chargement, et les marchandises prohibées devant être arrêtées sur la plage avant de pouvoir être embarquées, à moins qu'on ait des indices manifestes ou des preuves de versement frauduleux de la part du proprietaire du navire ou de celui qui en a le commandement. Dans ce cas seul, il en sera responsable et soumis aux loix du païs où il se trouve. Dans aucun autre cas, ni les sujets d'une des parties contractantes, se trouveront avec leurs navires dans les ports de l'autre, ni leurs marchandises, ne pourront être arrêtés ou molestés pour cause de contrebande, qu'ils auront voulu prendre à leur bord , ni aucune espece d'embargo mis sur leurs navires ; les sujets ou citoyens de l'etat ou ses marchandises sont declarées de contrebande, ou dont la sortie est defendue, et qui néanmoins auront vendu ou voulu vendre et aliener les dites marchandises, devant être les seuls qui seront duement punis pour une pareille contravention.

Fait à Paris le trois Avril, l'an de Grâce mil sept cent quartre vingt trois.

GUSTAV PHILIP Comte de Creutz. (L. s.)

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN .

(L. 8.)

DEFINITIVE TREATY OF PEACE

Between the United States of America and his Britannic Majesty. (a)

Sept. 3, 1783.

In the name of the Most Holy and Undivided Trinity. Ir having pleased the Divine Providence to dispose the hearts of the most serene and most potent Prince GEORGE the Third, by the Grace of God King of Great-Britain, France and Ireland , Defender of the Faith, Duke of Brunswick and Lunebourg, Arch-Treasurer and Prince Elector of the Holy Roman Empire, & c. and of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, to forget all past misunderstandings and differences that have unhappily interrupted the good correspondence and friendship which they mutually wish to restore ; and to establish such a beneficial and satisfactory intercourse between the two countries, upon the ground of reciprocal advantages and mutual convenience, as may promote and

(a) The decisions of the Courts of the United States in cases arising under the Definitive Treaty of Peace with Great Britain of September 3, 1783, have been :
The fifth article of the treaty of peace of 1783, between the United States and Great Britain , conclud-
ing with this clause : " And it is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the prose. cution of their just rights ;" applies to those cases where an actual confiscation has taken place ; and stipulates, that in such cases, the interest of all persons having a lien upon such lands shall be preserved. That clause of the treaty preserved the lien of a mortgagee of confiscated lands, which, at the time of the treaty, remained unsold. Higginson v. Mein, 4 Cranch, 415 ; 2 Cond. Rep. 155.
The treaties with Great Britain, of 1783 and 1794, only provide for titles existing at the time those treaties were made, and not for titles subsequently acquired. Actual possession of property is not necessary to give the party the benefit of the treaty. Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 335.
Where J. D., an alien and British subject, came into the United States subsequent to the treaty of 1783, and, before the treaty of 1794 was signed, died seised of lands, it was held that the title of his heirs to the land was not protected by the treaty of 1794. Ibid.
Thomas Scott, a native of South Carolina, died in 1782, intestate, seised of land on James Island, having two daughters, Ann and Sarah, both born in South Carolina before the declaration of independ ence. Sarah married D. P. a citizen of South Carolina , and died in 1802 , entitled to one half of the
estate. The British took possession of James Island and Charleston in February and May, 1780 ; and in 1781 Ann Scott married Joseph Shanks, a British officer ; and at the evacuation of Charleston in 1782, she went to England with her husband, where she remained until her death in 1801. She left five children, born in England. They claimed the other moiety ofthe real estate of Thomas Scott, in right of their mother, under the ninth article of the treaty of peace between this country and Great Britain of the 19th of November, 1794. Held, that they were entitled to recover and hold the same. Shanks et al. v. Dupont et al. 3 Peters, 242.
All British born subjects, whose allegiance Great Britain has never renounced, ought, upon general principles of interpretation , to be held within the intent, as they certainly are within the words, of the treaty of 1794. Ibid. 250.
The treaty of 1783, acted upon the state of things as it existed at that period. It took the actual state of things as its basis. All those, whether natives or otherwise, who then adhered to the American states, were virtually absolved from all allegiance to the British crown ; all those who then adhered to the British crown were deemed and held subjects of that crown. The treaty of peace was a treaty operating between states and the inhabitants thereof. Ibid. 274.
The several states which compose this Union , so far at least as regarded their municipal regulations, became entitled,from the time when they declared themselves independent, to all the rights and powers of sovereign states ; and did not derive them from concessions of the British king. The treaty of peace contains a recognition of the independence of these states, not a grant of it. The laws of the several state governinents, passed after the declaration of independence, were the laws of sovereign states, and as such were obligatory upon the people of each state. M'Ilvaine v. Core's Lessee, 4 Cranch, 209 ; 29 Cond. Rep. 86.
The property of British corporations, in this country, is protected by the sixth article of the treaty of peace of 1783, in the same manner as those of natural persons ; and their title, thus protected, is confirmed by the ninth article of the treaty of 1794, so that it could not be forfeited by any intermediate legislative act, or other proceeding for the defect of alienage. The Society for Propagating the Gospel, &c. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464 ; 5 Cond. Rep. 489. See also, post, p . 116, n.
(80)

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1783

81

secure to both perpetual peace and harmony : And having for this desirable end, already laid the foundation of peace and reconciliation, by

the provisional articles, signed at Paris, on the thirtieth of November,

one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two, by the commissioners em-

powered on each part, which articles were agreed to be inserted in,

and to constitute the treaty of peace proposed to be concluded between the crown of Great-Britain and the said United States, but which treaty was not to be concluded until terms of peace should be agreed upon

between Great-Britain and France, and his Britannic Majesty should be

ready to conclude such treaty accordingly ; and the treaty between

Great-Britain and France, having since been concluded , his Britannic

Majesty and the United States of America, in order to carry into full

effect the provisional articles abovementioned, according to the tenor thereof, have constituted and appointed, that is to say, His Britannic Majesty on his part, David Hartley, Esquire, Member of the Parliament

of Great-Britain ; and the said United States on their part, John Adams ,

Esquire, late a Commissioner of the United States of America at the Court of Versailles , late Delegate in Congress from the state of Massachusetts, and Chief Justice of the said state, and Minister Plenipoten-

tiary of the said United States to their High Mightinesses the States

General of the United Netherlands ; Benjamin Franklin , Esquire, late Delegate in Congress from the state of Pennsylvania, President of the

Convention of the said state, and Minister Plenipotentiary from the

United States of America at the Court of Versailles ; John Jay, Esquire,

late President of Congress, and Chief Justice of the state of NewYork, and Minister Plenipotentiary from the said United States at the

Court of Madrid, to be the Plenipotentiaries for the concluding and

signing the present definitive treaty ; who after having reciprocally com-

municated their respective full powers, have agreed upon and confirmed the following articles.
ARTICLE I.
His Britannic Majesty acknowledges the said United States, viz. New-Hampshire, Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode-Island and Providence
Plantations, Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey , Pennsylvania, Dela-

United States
acknowledged to be independent.

ware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina, and Georgia,

to be free, sovereign and independent States ; that he treats with them

as such ; and for himself, his heirs and successors , relinquishes all

claims to the government, propriety and territorial rights of the same, and every part thereof.
ARTICLE II.

And that all disputes which might arise in future, on the subject of the Boundaries

boundaries ofthe said United States, may be prevented , it is hereby agreed established.
and declared, that the following are, and shall be their boundaries, viz. Post. p. 572. From the north-west angle of Nova-Scotia, viz. that angle which is

formed by a line, drawn due north from the source of St. Croix river to the Highlands ; along the said Highlands which divide those rivers, that

empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence, from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean , to the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river,

thence down along the middle of that river, to the forty-fifth degree of

north latitude ; from thence, by a line due west on said latitude, until

it strikes the river Iroquois or Cataraquy ; thence along the middle of said river into lake Ontario, through the middle of said lake until it

strikes the communication by water between that lake and lake Erie ; thence along the middle of said communication into lake Erie, through the middle of said lake until it arrives at the water-communication

between that lake and lake Huron ; thence along the middle of said

water-communication into the lake Huron ; thence through the middle of said lake to the water-communication between that lake and lake

Superior ; thence through lake Superior northward of the isles Royal VOL. VIII. 11

82

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1783.



and Phelipeaux, to the Long Lake ; thence through the middle of said Long Lake, and the water-communication between it and the Lake of the Woods, to the said Lake of the Woods ; thence through the said lake to the most north-western point thereof, and from thence on a due west course to the river Missisippi ; thence by a line to be drawn along the middle of the said river Missisippi until it shall intersect the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude. South by a line to be drawn due east from the determination of the line last men-

tioned, in the latitude of thirty-one degrees north of the Equator, to the middle of the river Apalachicola or Catahouche ; thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river ; thence strait to the head of St. Mary's river ; and thence down along the middle of St. Mary's river to the Atlantic ocean. East by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river St. Croix, from its mouth in the Bay of Fundy to its source, and from its source directly north to the aforesaid Highlands which divide the rivers that fall into the Atlantic ocean, from those which fall into the river St. Lawrence ; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United States, and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries between Nova-Scotia on the one part, and EastFlorida on the other, shall respectively touch the Bay of Fundy and the Atlantic ocean ; excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have been within the limits of the said province of Nova-Scotia.

Right of fishery secured.

ARTICLE III. It is agreed that the people of the United States shall continue to enjoy unmolested the right to take fish of every kind on the Grand

Bank, and on all the other banks of Newfoundland ; also in the gulph

of St. Lawrence, and at all other places in the sea, where the inhabi-

tants of both countries used at any time heretofore to fish ; and also

that the inhabitants of the United States shall have liberty to take fish of every kind on such part of the coast of Newfoundland as British

fishermen shall use (but not to dry or cure the same on that island ) ;

and also on the coasts, bays and creeks of all other of his Britannic

Majesty's dominions in America ; and that the American fishermen shall have liberty to dry and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays , har-

bours and creeks of Nova- Scotia, Magdalen islands, and Labrador , so

long as the same shall remain unsettled ; but so soon as the same or either of them shall be settled , it shall not be lawful for the said fisher-

men to dry or cure fish at such settlement, without a previous agree-

Debts to be paid.

ment for that purpose with the inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the ground.
ARTICLE IV.
It is agreed that creditors on either side, shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts heretofore contracted.

ARTICLE V.

Congress to

It is agreed that the Congress shall earnestly recommend it to the

recommend to legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all

tthuteiosntaotfescornefsitsi-- estates, rights and properties, which have been confiscated, belonging cated estates. to real British subjects, and also of the estates, rights and properties of

persons resident in districts in the possession of his Majesty's arms, and who have not borne arms against the said United States. And that

persons of any other description shall have free liberty to go to any part or parts of any of the thirteen United States, and therein to remain twelve months , unmolested in their endeavours to obtain the restitution

of such of their estates, rights and properties, as may have been confiscated ; and that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states a reconsideration and revision of all acts or laws regard-

ing the premises, so as to render the said laws or acts perfectly con

DEFINITIVE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1783.

83

sistent, not only with justice and equity, but with that spirit of conciliation, which on the return of the blessings of peace should universally prevail. And that Congress shall also earnestly recommend to the several states, that the estates, rights and properties of such last mentioned persons, shall be restored to them, they refunding to any persons who may be now in possession, the bona fide price (where any has been given) which such persons may have paid on purchasing any of the said lands, rights or properties, since the confiscation. And it is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful

impediment in the prosecution of their just rights.
ARTICLE VI. That there shall be no future confiscations made, nor any prosecu- No further tions commenced against any person or persons for , or by reason of the confiscations of part which he or they may have taken in the present war ; and that no prosecutions. person shall, on that account, suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person, liberty or property ; and that those who may be in confinement on such charges, at the time of the ratification of the treaty in America, shall be immediately set at liberty, and the prosecutions so commenced be discontinued.
ARTICLE VII. There shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britannic Hostilities to Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the one and ctiesahsea,rmainedsBtroi. the citizens ofthe other, wherefore all hostilities, both by sea and land , be withdrawn. shall from henceforth cease : all prisoners on both sides shall be set at liberty, and his Britannic Majesty shall , with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons and fleets from the said United States, and from every post, place

and harbour within the same ; leaving in all fortifications the American artillery that may be therein ; and shall also order and cause all archives, records, deeds and papers, belonging to any of the said states, or their citizens, which in the course of the war may have fallen into the hands of his officers, to be forthwith restored and delivered to the proper states and persons to whom they belong.
ARTICLE VIII.

The navigation ofthe river Missisippi, from its source to the ocean, Navigation of

shall for ever remain free and open to the subjects of Great-Britain , and

the Mississippi to be free to

the citizens of the United States.

both nations.

ARTICLE IX.

In case it should so happen that any place or territory belonging to Great-Britain or to the United States, should have been conquered by the arms of either from the other, before the arrival of the said provisional articles in America, it is agreed, that the same shall be restored without difficulty, and without requiring any compensation.

Conquests be fore arrival of Athmeesreiacratitcolebsein restored.

ARTICLE X.

The solemn ratifications of the present treaty, expedited in good and Ratification.

due form , shall be exchanged between the contracting parties, in the

space of six months, or sooner if possible, to be computed from the day

of the signature of the present treaty. In witness whereof, we the un-

dersigned, their Ministers Plenipotentiary, have in their name and in

virtue of our full powers, signed with our hands the present definitive treaty, and caused the seals of our arms to be affixed thereto.
Done at Paris, this third day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty- three.

D. HARTLEY, JOHN ADAMS , B. FRANKLIN, JOHN JAY,

(L. s.)
(L. S.) (L. s .) (1.. $.)

A TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE,

Between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States of America . (a)

July, August, His Majesty the King of Prussia, and the United States of America, a17n8d5S. eptember, desiring to fix, in a permanent and equitable manner, the rules to be
observed in the intercourse and commerce they desire to establish between their respective countries ; His Majesty and the United States have judged that the said end cannot be better obtained than by taking the most perfect equality and reciprocity for the basis of their agreement.
With this view, His Majesty the King of Prussia has nominated and constituted as his Plenipotentiary, the Baron Frederick William de Thulemeier, his Privy Counsellor of Embassy, and Envoy Extraordinary with their High Mightinesses the States General of the United Netherlands ; and the United States have, on their part, given full powers to John Adams, Esquire, late one of their Ministers Plenipotentiary for negotiating a peace, heretofore a Delegate in Congress from the state of Massachusetts, and Chief Justice of the same, and now Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States with His Britannic Majesty ; Doctor Benjamin Franklin, late Minister Plenipotentiary at the court of Versailles, and another of their Ministers Plenipotentiary for negotiating a peace ; and Thomas Jefferson, heretofore a Delegate in Congress from the state of Virginia, and Governor of the said state, and now Minister
Plenipotentiary of the United States at the court of His Most Christian Majesty, which respective Plenipotentiaries, after having exchanged their full powers, and on mature deliberation, have concluded, settled and signed the following articles.

Peace and
friendship between the two nations.

ARTICLE I.
There shall be a firm, inviolable and universal peace and sincere friendship between His Majesty the King of Prussia, his heirs, successors and subjects, on the one part, and the United States of America, and their citizens, on the other, without exception of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

Subjects of
Prussia entitled to same privileges in U. S. as the most favoured nation.

The subjects of his Majesty the King of Prussia may frequent all the coasts and countries of the United States of America, and reside and trade there in all sorts of produce, manufactures and merchandize ; and shall pay within the said United States no other or greater duties, charges or fees whatsoever, than the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged

to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions in navigation and commerce, which the most favoured nation does or shall

enjoy ; submitting themselves nevertheless to the laws and usages there established, and to which are submitted the citizens of the United States, and the citizens and subjects of the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE III.

In like manner the citizens of the United States of America may frequent all the coasts and countries of his Majesty the King of Prussia

(a) The treaties between the United States and Prussia have been : A Treaty of Amity and Commerce between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States of America, July, August, and September, 1785.

(84)

TRAITÉ D'AMITIÉ ET DE COMMERCE,

Entre sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse et les États Unis de l'Amérique.

SA Majesté le Roi de Prusse, & c. & c. et les Etats Unis de l'Amerique, désirant de fixer d'une maniére permanente et équitable les regles qui doivent être observées relativement à la correspondance et au commerce á établir entre les États respectifs des deux parties ; sa Majesté et les Etats Unis ont cru ne pouvoir mieux remplir ce but, qu'en posant pour base de leurs engagemens la plus parfaite égalité et reciprocité.
Dans cette vue sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse a nommé et constitué pour son Plenipotentiaire le Baron Frédéric Guillaume de Thulemeier, son Conseiller Privé d'Ambassade et Envoyé Extraordinaire auprés de L. H. P. les États Généraux des Provinces Unies ; et les Etats Unis ont de leur côté pourvu de leurs pleinpouvoirs le Sieur John Adams cidevant l'un de leurs Ministres Plenipotentiaires pour traiter de la paix, Délegué au Congrés de la part de l'etat de Massachusetts et Chef de Justice du dit état, actuellement Ministre Plenipotentiaire des États Unis près sa Majesté le Roi de la Grand Brétagne, le Docteur Benjamin Franklin en dernier lieu leur Ministre Plenipotentiaire à la cour de S. M. T. C. et aussi l'un de leurs Ministres Plenipotentiaires pour traiter
de la paix ; et le Sieur Thomas Jefferson, ci-devant délegué au Congrès de la part de l'etat de Virginie et gouverneur du dit etat, actuellement Ministre Plénipotentiaire à la cour de S. M. T. C. , lesquels Plénipotentiaires respectifs, après avoir échangé leurs pleinpouvoirs, et en consequence d'une mure déliberation, ont conclu, arrêté et signé les articles suivans.
ARTICLE I.
Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle et une amitié sincère, entre sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, ses heritiers, successeurs et sujets, d'une part, et les Etats Unis d'Amérique et leurs citoyens , d'autre part, sans excéption de personnes ou de lieux.
ARTICLE II.
Les sujets de sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse pourront fréquenter toutes les côtes et tous les pays des États Unis de l'Amérique, y résider et trafiquer en toutes sortes de productions, manufactures et marchandises, et ne payeront d'autres ni de plus forts impôts, charges ou droits dans les dits Etats Unis, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont, ou seront obligées de payer ; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, privileges et éxemptions dans la navigation et le commerce dont jouit, ou jouira la nation la plus favoriseé ; se soumettant néanmoins aux loix et usages y établis, et auxquels sont soumis les citoyens des Etats Unis et les citoyens et sujets des nations les plus favorisées.
ARTICLE III. Pareillement les citoyens des Etats Unis de l'Amérique pourront fréquenter toutes les côtes et tous les pays de sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse,

Treaty of Amity and Commerce between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States of America. July 11 , 1799 ; post , 162.
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Prussia. May 1 , 1828 ; post, 378.

H

(85)

86

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

Citizens of U.S. entitled to isnaPmreuspsriiavi, laesges the most fa-
voured nations.

and reside and trade there in all sorts of produce, manufactures and merchandize, and shall pay in the dominions of his said Majesty no other or greater duties, charges or fees whatsoever than the most favoured nation is or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions in navigation and commerce which the most favoured nation does or shall enjoy ; submitting themselves nevertheless to the laws and usages there established, and to which are submitted the subjects of his Majesty the King of Prussia, and the subjects and citizens of the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE IV.

Regulation of cteormcmoeurrcsiea. l in-

More especially each party shall have a right to carry their own produce, manufactures and merchandize , in their own or any other vessels
to any parts of the dominions of the other, where it shall be lawful for all the subjects or citizens of that other freely to purchase them ; and thence to take the produce, manufactures and merchandize of the other, which all the said citizens or subjects shall in like manner be free to sell them, paying in both cases such duties, charges and fees only, as are or shall be paid by the most favoured nation. Nevertheless the King of Prussia and the United States, and each of them, reserve to themselves the right, where any nation restrains the transportation of merchandize to the vessels of the country of which it is the growth or manufacture, to establish against such nations retaliating regulations ; and also the right to prohibit, in their respective countries, the importation and exportation of all merchandize whatsoever , when reasons of state shall require it. In this case, the subjects or citizens of either of the contracting parties shall not import nor export the merchandize prohibited by the other ; but if one of the contracting parties permits any
other nation to import or export the same merchandize, the citizens or subjects of the other shall immediately enjoy the same liberty.

ARTICLE V.

Vessels not to
bloeafdomrecrecdhtaonu-ndize, & c.

The merchants , commanders of vessels, or other subjects or citizens of either party, shall not, within the ports or jurisdiction of the other, be forced to unload any sort of merchandize into any other vessels, nor to receive them into their own , nor to wait for their being loaded longer than they please.

ARTICLE VI.

Goods to be examined be-
fnoortealfotaedre, du,na-nd less in case of fraud.

That the vessels of either party loading within the ports or jurisdiction of the other , may not be uselessly harassed or detained , it is agreed , that all examinations of goods required by the laws, shall be made
before they are laden on board the vessel, and that there shall be no examination after ; nor shall the vessel be searched at any time, unless articles shall have been laden therein clandestinely and illegally, in which case the person by whose order they were carried on board, or who carried them without order , shall be liable to the laws of the land in which he is ; but no other person shall be molested, nor shall any other goods, nor the vessel be seized or detained for that cause.

ARTICLE VII.
Each party shall endeavour , by all the means in their power, to protect and defend all vessels and other effects belonging to the citizens or subjects of the other, which shall be within the extent of their jurisdic

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

87

9

y resider et trafiquer en toutes sortes de productions, manufactures et marchandises, et ne payeront d'autres ni plus forts impots, charges ou droits dans les domaines de sa dite Majesté, que ceux que la nation la

plus favorisées est, ou sera obligée de payer, et ils jouiront des tous les droits, priviléges et exemptions dans la navigation et le commerce, dont jouit ou jouira la nation la plus favorisée ; se soumettant néanmoins aux loix et usages y établis, et aux quels sont soumis les sujets de sa

Majesté le Roi de Prusse, et les sujets et citoyens des nations les plus favorisées.

ARTICLE IV.

En particulier, chacune des deux nations aura le droit d'importer ses propres productions, manufactures et marchandises à bord de ses propres bâtiments ou de tel autre, dans toutes les parties des domaines de l'autre, où il sera permis à tous les sujets et citoyens de l'autre nation de les acheter librement ; comme aussi d'y charger les productions, manufactures et marchandises de l'autre que tous les dits sujets ou citoyens auront la liberté de leur vendre ; en payant dans l'un et l'autre cas, tels impots, droits et charges seulement, que ceux qui sont, ou seront payés par la nation la plus favorisée. Cependant le Roi de Prusse et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique, et chacun d'eux en particulier, se reservant le droit, au cas que quelque nation restreigne le transport des marchandises aux vaisseaux des pays dont elles sont la production ou la manufacture, d'établir envers cette nation des réglemens reciproques. Se reservant de plus le droit de prohiber dans leurs pays respectifs l'importation ou l'exportation de toute marchandise quelconque, dès que la raison d'etat l'exige. En ce cas, les sujets ou citoyens d'une des parties contractantes ne pourront importer ni exporter les marchandises prohibées par l'autre. Mais si l'une des parties contractantes permet à quelqu'autre nation d'importer ou d'exporter ces mêmes marchandises, les citoyens ou sujets de l'autre partie contractante jouiront tout aussitôt d'une liberté pareille.

ARTICLE V.

Les marchands, commandans de vaisseaux, et autres sujets ou citoyens de chacune des deux nations, ne seront pas forcés dans les ports ou dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, de décharger aucune sorte de marchandises dans d'autres vaisseaux, ni de les recevoir à bord de leurs propres navires, ni d'attendre leur chargement plus long-temps qu'il ne leur plaira.
ARTICLE VI.

Pour eviter que les vaisseaux de l'une des deux parties contractantes ne soyent point inutilement molestés ou detenus dans les ports ou sous la jurisdiction de l'autre, il a été convenu que la visite des marchandises, ordonnée par les loix, se fera avant qu'elles ne soyent chargés sur le navire, et qu'ensuite elles ne seront plus assujetties à aucune visite. Et en général il ne se fera point de recherche à bord du vaisseau, à moins qu'on n'y ait chargé clandestinement et illégalement des marchandises prohibées. Dans ce cas, celui par l'ordre duquel elles ont été portées à bord, ou celui qui les y a portées sans ordre, sera soumis aux loix du pays où il se trouve, sans que le reste de l'équipage soit molesté, ni les autres marchandises, ou le vaisseau saisis ou detenus par cette raison.
ARTICLE VII.
Chacune des deux parties contractantes tâchera, par tous les moyens qui seront en son pouvoir, de protéger et de défendre tous les vaisseaux et autres effets appartenans aux citoyens ou sujets de l'autre, et se trou-

888

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

Each party to protect the ves-
sels and effects of the other, in their dominions.

tion, by sea or by land ; and shall use all their efforts to recover, and cause to be restored to the right owners, their vessels and effects which shall be taken from them within the extent of their said jurisdiction.

ARTICLE VIII.

Vessels com. The vessels of the subjects or citizens of either party, coming on any

ing on the coast,
poorrtesntoerfienigtthehre nation, how to be treated.

coast belonging to the other, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port, and not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, shall have liberty to depart and to pursue their voyage, without molestation, and without being obliged to render account of their cargo, or to pay any duties, charges or fees whatsoever, except those established

for vessels entered into port, and appropriated to the maintenance of

the port itself, or of other establishments for the safety and convenience

of navigators, which duties, charges and fees shall be the same, and

shall be paid on the same footing as in the case of subjects or citizens of the country where they are established.

ARTICLE IX.

in case of ship- When any vessel of either party shall be wrecked , foundered or other-

wrecks relief shall be afford-

wise damaged on the coasts, or within the dominion of the other, their

ed, and goods respective subjects or citizens shall receive, as well for themselves as

restored.

for their vessels and effects , the same assistance which would be due to

the inhabitants of the country where the damage happens, and shall pay

the same charges and dues only as the said inhabitants would be subject

to pay in a like case : and if the operations of repair shall require that

the whole or any part of their cargo be unladed, they shall pay no

duties, charges or fees on the part which they shall relade and carry

away. The antient and barbarous right to wrecks of the sea shall be

entirely abolished, with respect to the subjects or citizens of the two

contracting parties.

ARTICLE X.

The citizens or
psaurbtjyecmtsaoyf deias-ch pose of their personal estate bwiyswei.ll or other

The citizens or subjects of each party shall have power to dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by testament, donation or otherwise ; and their representatives, being subjects or citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof either by themselves or by others acting for them, and dispose of the

same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said goods are , shall be subject to pay in like cases. And in case of the absence of the representative, such care shall be taken of the said goods, and for so long a time as would be taken of

the goods of a native in like case, until the lawful owner may take

measures for receiving them. And if question shall arise among several

Regulations
concerning the same .

claimants to which of them the said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally by the laws and judges of the land wherein the said goods are. And where, on the death of any person holding real estate within the territories of the one party, such real estate would by the laws of the land descend on a citizens or subject of the other, were he

not disqualified by alienage, such subject shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell the same, and to withdraw the proceds without molestation, and exempt from all rights of detraction on the part of the government of the respective states. But this article shall not derogate in any

manner from the force of the laws already published or hereafter to be published by his Majesty the King of Prussia, to prevent the emigration

of his subjects.

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785 . 8
vant dans l'étendue de sa jurisdiction par mer ou par terre et elle employera tous ses efforts pour recouvrer et faire restituer aux propriétaires légitimes les vaisseaux et effets qui leur auront été enlevés dans l'étendue de sa dite jurisdiction.

ARTICLE VIII.
Les vaisseaux des sujets ou citoyens d'une des deux parties contractantes, arrivant sur une côte appartenante à l'autre, mais n'ayant pas dessein d'entrer au port, ou y étant entrés, ne desirant pas de decharger leurs cargaisons, ou de rompre leur charge, auront la liberté de repartir et de poursuivre leur route sans empêchement, et sans être obligés de rendre compte de leur cargaison, ni de payer aucuns impots, charges et droits quelconques, excepté ceux établis sur les vaisseaux une fois entrés dans le port, et destinés à l'entretien du port même ou à d'autres établissemens qui ont pour but la sûreté et la commodité des navigateurs, lesquels droits, charges et impôts seront les mêmes et se payeront sur le même pied qu'ils sont acquittés par les sujets ou citoyens de l'état où ils sont établis.

ARTICLE IX.

Au cas que quelque vaisseau appartenant à l'une des deux parties contractantes auroit fait naufrage, échoué ou souffert quelque autre dommage sur les côtes ou sous la domination de l'autre, les sujets ou citoyens respectifs recevront, tant pour eux que pour leurs vaisseaux et effets, la même assistance qui auroit été fournie aux habitans du pays où l'accident arrive ; et ils payeront seulement les mêmes charges et droits, auxquels les dits habitants auroient été assujettis en pareil cas. Et si la réparation du vaisseau exigeoit que la cargaison fût dechargée en tout ou en partie, ils ne payeront aucun impôt, charge ou droit de ce qui sera rembarqué et emporté. L'ancien et barbare droit de naufrage sera entiérement aboli à l'égard des sujets ou citoyens des deux parties contractantes.

ARTICLE X.

Les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des deux parties contractantes auront dans les états de l'autre, la liberté de disposer de leurs biens personels,

soit par testament, donation ou autrement, et leurs héritiers étant sujets ou citoyens de l'autre partie contractante, succéderont à leurs biens,

soit en vertu d'un testament, ou ab intestat, et ils pourront en prendre

possession, soit en personne, soit par d'autres agissant en leur place, et

en disposeront à leur volonté, en ne payant d'autres droits que ceux aux-quels les habitants du pays où la succession est devenue vacante,

sont assujettis en pareille occurrence. Et en cas d'absence des héritiers,

[on] prendra aussi longtemps des biens qui leur sont échus, les mêmes

soins qu'on auroit pris en pareille occasion des biens des natifs du pays,

jusqu'à ce que le propriétaire légitime ait agrée des arrangemens pour recueillir l'heritage. S'il s'éleve des contestations entre différens pre-

tendans ayant droit à la succession , elles seront decidées en dernier

ressort selon les loix et par les juges du pays où la succession est vacante.

Et si par la mort de quelque personne possédant des biens-fonds sur le

territoire de l'une des parties contractantes, ces biens-fonds venoient a

passer, selon les loix du pays, à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie, si celui-ci, par sa qualité d'étranger est inhabile de les posseder, obtiendra

un delai convenable pour les vendre et pour en retirer le provenu , sans

obstacle, exempt de tout droit de retenue, de la part du gouvernement

des Etats respectifs. Mais cet article ne derogera en aucune maniere

à la force des lois qui ont déja été publiées ou qui le seront dans la

suite, par sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, pour prevenir l'emigration de

ses sujets.

VOL. VIII. 12

H2

.90

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

ARTICLE XI.

Liberty ofcon- The most perfect freedom of conscience and of worship, is granted to

science se-

cured.

the citizens or subjects of either party, within the jurisdiction of the

other, without being liable to molestation in that respect, for any cause

other than an insult on the religion of others. Moreover, when the

subjects or citizens of the one party, shall die within the jurisdiction of

the other, their bodies shall be buried in the usual burying grounds, or

other decent and suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

ARTICLE XII.

Liberty for

If one of the contracting parties should be engaged in war with any

either party to other power, the free intercourse and commerce of the subjects or

ttiroandeatwwiathr awintah- citizens of the party remaining neuter with the belligerent powers,

the other.

shall not be interrupted. On the contrary, in that case as in full peace,

the vessels of the neutral party may navigate freely to and from the

Free ships inake free
goods.

ports and on the coasts of the belligerent parties, free vessels making free goods, insomuch , that all things shall be adjudged free which shall be on board any vessel belonging to the neutral party, although such

things belong to an enemy ofthe other ; and the same freedom shall be

extended to persons who shall be on board a free vessel, although they

should be enemies to the other party, unless they be soldiers in actual service of such enemy.

ARTICLE XIII.

No goods shall
be deemed contraband, so as to justify confiscation ; but
vessels may be detained .

And in the same case of one of the contracting parties being engaged in war with any other power, to prevent all the difficulties and misunderstandings that usually arise respecting the merchandize heretofore called contraband, such as arms, ammunition and military stores of every kind , no such articles carried in the vessels, or by the subjects or citizens of one of the parties to the enemies of the other, shall be deemed contraband, so as to induce confiscation or condemnation and a loss of property to individuals. Nevertheless, it shall be lawful to stop such vessels and articles, and to detain them for such length of time as the captors may think necessary to prevent the inconvenience or damage that might ensue from their proceeding, paying however a reasonable compensation for the loss such arrest shall occasion to the proprietors : And it shall further be allowed to use in the service of the captors, the whole or any part of the military stores so detained, paying the owners the full value of the same, to be ascertained by the current price at the place of its destination. But in the case supposed, of a vessel stopped for articles heretofore deemed contraband, if the master of the vessel stopped will deliver out the goods supposed to be of contraband nature, he shall be admitted to do it, and the vessel shall not in that case be carried into any port, nor further detained, but shall be allowed to proceed on her voyage.

Vessels to be furnished with Bea-letters or passports.

ARTICLE XIV.
And in the same case where one of the parties is engaged in war with another power, that the vessels of the neutral party may be readily and certainly known, it is agreed, that they shall be provided with sealetters, or passports, which shall express the name, the property and burthen of the vessel , as also the name and dwelling of the master, which passports shall be made out in good and due forms, (to be settled by conventions between the parties whenever occasion shall require ) shall be renewed as often as the vessel shall return into port ; and shall

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

91

ARTICLE XI.
Il sera accordé la plus parfaite liberté de conscience et de culte aux citoyens et sujets de chaque partie contractante dans les états de l'autre, et personne ne sera molesté à cet égard pour quelque cause que ce soit, si ce n'est pour insulte faite à la religion de l'autre. De plus, si des sujets et citoyens de l'une des parties contractantes venoient à mourir dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, leurs corps seront enterrés dans les endroits où l'on a coutume de faire les enterremens, ou dans tel autre lieu
decent et convenable, et ils seront protegés contre toute violence et trouble.
ARTICLE XII.
Si l'une des parties contractantes étoit en guerre avec une autre puissance, la libre correspondance et le commerce des citoyens ou sujets de la partie qui demeure neutre envers les puissances belligérantes, ne seront point interrompus. Au contraire, et dans ce cas, comme en pleine paix, les vaisseaux de la partie neutre pourront naviguer en toute sûreté dans les ports et sur les côtes des puissances belligérantes, les vaisseaux libres rendant les marchandises libres, en tant qu'on
regardera comme libre tout ce qui sera à bord d'un navire appartenant à la partie neutre, quand même ces éffets appartiendroient à l'ennemi de l'autre. La même liberté s'étendra aux personnes qui se trouveront à bord d'un vaisseau libre, quand mêmes elles seroient ennemis de l'autre partie, excepté que ce fussent des gens de guerre, actuellement au service de l'ennemi.
ARTICLE XIII.
Dans le cas où l'une des parties contractantes se trouveroit en guerre avec une autre puissance, il a été convenu que pour prevenir les difficultés et les discussions qui surviennent ordinairement par rapport aux marchandises ci-devant appellées de contrebande, telles que armes, munitions, et autres provisions de guerre de toute espéce, aucun de ces articles, chargés à bord des vaisseaux des citoyens ou sujets de l'une des parties, et destinés pour l'ennemi de l'autre, ne sera censé de contrebande, au point d'impliquer confiscation ou condamnation, et d'éntrainer la perte de la proprieté des individus. Néanmoins il sera permis d'arrêter ces sortes de vaisseaux et effets, et de les retenir pendant tout le temps que le preneur croira nécessaire pour prévenir les inconveniens et le dommage qui pourroient en resulter autrement ; mais dans ce cas on accordera une compensation raisonable pour les pertes qui auront été occasionnées par la saisie. Et il sera permis en outre aux preneurs d'employer a leur service, en tout , ou en partie, les munitions militaires. détenues, en en payant aux propriétaires la pleine valeur, à determiner sur le prix qui aura cours à l'endroit de leur destination ; mais que dans le cas énoncé, d'un vaisseau arrêté pour des articles ci-devant appellés contrebande, si le maitre du navire consentoit à delivrer les marchandises suspectes, il aura la liberté de le faire, et le navire ne sera plus amené dans le port, ni détenu plus long-temps, mais aura toute liberté de poursuivre sa route.
ARTICLE XIV.
Dans le cas où l'une des deux parties contractantes se trouveroit engagée dans une guerre avec une autre puissance, et afin que les vaisseaux de la partie neutre soyent promptement et sûrement reconnus, on est convenu qu'ils devront être munis de lettres de mer ou passeports, exprimant le nom, le propriétaire, et le port du navire, ainsi que le nom et la demeure du maitre. Ces passeports, qui seront expédiés en bonne et due forme (à déterminer par des conventions entre les parties, lorsque l'occasion le requerra) devront être renouvellés toutes les fois que le

92

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

be exhibited whensoever required, as well in the open sea as in port. But if the said vessel be under convoy of one or more vessels of war, belonging to the neutral party, the simple declaration of the officer commanding the convoy, that the said vessel belongs to the party of which he is, shall be considered as establishing the fact, and shall relieve both parties from the trouble of further examination.

ARTICLE XV.

How vessels

And to prevent entirely all disorder and violence in such cases, it is

aerdewthoebnemteretatb.y stipulated, that when the vessels of the neutral party, sailing without ships of war or convoy, shall be met by any vessel of war , public or private, of the

privateers.

other party, such vessel of war shall not approach within cannon shot

of the said neutral vessel , nor send more than two or three men in their

boat on board the same, to examine her sea-letters or passports. And

all persons belonging to any vessel of war, public or private, who shall

molest or injure, in any manner whatever, the people, vessels or effects

of the other party, shall be responsible in their persons and property for

damages and interest, sufficient security for which shall be given by all

commanders of private armed vessels before they are commissioned.

ARTICLE XVI.

Vessels not to It is agreed that the subjects or citizens of each of the contracting be detained. parties, their vessels and effects, shall not be liable to any embargo or
detention on the part of the other, for any military expedition , or other public or private purpose whatsoever. And in all cases of seizure,
detention or arrest, for debts contracted or offences committed by any citizen or subject of the one party, within the jurisdiction of the other, the same shall be made and prosecuted by order and authority of law only, and according to the regular course of proceedings usual in such cases.

ARTICLE XVII.

When re-captured, vessels shall be restored.

If any vessel or effects of the neutral power be taken by an enemy of the other, or by a pirate, and retaken by that other, they shall be brought into some port of one of the parties, and delivered into the custody of the officers of that port, in order to be restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due proof shall be made concerning the property thereof.

ARTICLE XVIII.

Vessels driven by stress of weather, & c. into ports, shall be protected.

If the citizens or subjects of either party, in danger from tempests, pirates, enemies or other accident, shall take refuge with their vessels or effects, within the harbours or jurisdiction of the other, they shall be received, protected and treated with humanity and kindness, and shall be permitted to furnish themselves, at reasonable prices, with all refreshments, provisions and other things necessary for their sustenance, health and accommodation, and for the repair of their vessels.

ARTICLE XIX.

Vessels ofwar
may carryprizes into the ports of each nation.

The vessels of war, public and private, of both parties, shall carry freely wheresoever they please, the vessels and effects taken from their enemies, without being obliged to pay any duties, charges or fees to officers of admiralty, of the customs, or any others, nor shall such prizes be arrested , searched or put under legal process, when they come to and enter the ports of the other party , but may freely be carried out

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

93

vaisseau retournera dans son port, et seront exhibés à chaque requisition tant en pleine mer que dans le port. Mais si le navire se trouve sous le convoi d'un ou plusieurs vaisseaux de guerre appartenants à la partie neutre, il suffira que l'officier commandant du convoi déclare que le navire est de son parti moyennant quoi cette simple déclaration sera censée établir le fait, et dispensera les deux parties de toute visite ultérieure .
ARTICLE XV.
Pour prévenir entiérement tout désordre et toute violence en pareil cas, il a été stipulé que lorsque des navires, de la partie neutre, navigeans sans convoi, rencontreront quelque vaisseau de guerre public ou particulier de l'autre partie, le vaisseau de guerre n'approchera le navire neutre qu' au delà de la portée du canon, et n'enverra pas plus de deux ou trois hommes dans sa chaloupe à bord, pour examiner les lettres de mer ou passeports. Et toutes les personnes appartenantes à quelque vaisseau de guerre public ou particulier, qui molesteront ou insulteront en quelque maniére que ce soit l'equipage, les vaisseaux ou effets de l'autre partie, seront responsables en leurs personnes et en leurs biens, de tous dommages et intérêts ; pour lesquels il sera donné caution suffisante par tous les commandans de vaisseaux armés en course, avant qu'ils reçoivent leurs commissions.
ARTICLE XVI.
Il a été convenu que les sujets ou citoyens de l'une des parties contractantes, leurs vaisseaux ni effets, ne pourront être assujettis à aucun embargo, ni retenus de la part de l'autre pour quelque expédition militaire, usage public ou particulier de qui que ce soit. Et dans les cas de saisie, de detention, ou d'arrêt, soit pour dettes contractées, ou offenses commises par quelque citoyen ou sujet de l'une des parties contractantes dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, on procedera uniquement par ordre et autorité de la justice et suivant les voyes ordinaires en pareil cas usitées.
ARTICLE XVII .
S'il arrivoit que les bâtimens ou effets de la puissance neutre fussent pris par l'ennemi de l'autre, ou par un pirate, et ensuite repris par la puissance en guerre, ils seront conduits dans un port de l'une des deux parties contractantes et remis à la garde des officiers du port, afin d'être restitués en entier au proprietaire legitime, dès qu'il aura duement constaté son droit de propriété.
ARTICLE XVIII.
Lorsque les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des deux parties contractantes seront forcés par des tempêtes, par la poursuite des corsaires ou vaisseaux ennemis, ou par quelqu' autre accident, à se réfugier avec leurs vaisseaux ou effets dans les havres, ou dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, ils seront reçus, protégés et traités avec humanité et honnêteté. Il leur sera permis de se pourvoir à un prix raisonable de rafraichissemens, de provisions et de toutes choses nécessaires pour leur subsistance, santé et commodité, et pour la reparation de leurs vaisseaux.
ARTICLE XIX.
Les vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers des deux parties contractantes, pourront conduire en toute liberté, par tout où il leur plaira, les vaisseaux et effets qu'ils auront pris sur leurs ennemis, sans être obligés de payer aucune impôts , charges ou droits aux officiers de l'amirauté, des douanes ou autres. Ces prises ne pourront être non plus ni arrêtées, ni visitées, ni soumises à des procédures légales, en entrant

94

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA . 1785.

again at any time by their captors to the places expressed in their commissions , which the commanding officer of such vessel shall be obliged to show. But no vessel which shall have made prizes on the subjects of his Most Christian Majesty the King of France, shall have a right of asylum in the ports or havens of the said United States ; and if any such be forced therein by tempest or dangers of the sea, they shall be obliged to depart as soon as possible, according to the tenor of the treaties existing between his said Most Christian Majesty and the said United States.

ARTICLE XX.

Citizens of either party shall not take commissions or letters of marque from a state at war
with the other.

No citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties shall take from any power with which the other may be at war, any commission or letter of marque for arming any vessel to act as a privateer against the other, on pain of being punished as a pirate ; nor shall either party hire, lend or give any part of their naval or military force to the enemy of the other, to aid them offensively or defensively against that other.

ARTICLE XXI.
Regulations to If the two contracting parties should be engaged in war against a be observed in common enemy, the following points shall be observed between them. case of war.
1. If a vessel of one of the parties, retaken by a privateer of the other, shall not have been in possession of the enemy more than twentyfour hours, she shall be restored to the first owner for one third of the value of the vessel and cargo ; but if she shall have been more than twenty-four hours in possession of the enemy, she shall belong wholly to the recaptor. 2. If in the same case the recapture were by a public vessel of war of the one party, restitution shall be made to the owner for one thirtieth part of the value of the vessel and cargo, if she shall not have been in possession of the enemy more than twenty-four hours, and one tenth of the said value where she shall have been longer, which sums shall be distributed in gratuities to the recaptors. 3. The restitution in the cases aforesaid , shall be after due proof of property, and surety given for the part to which the recaptors are entitled. 4. The vessels of war, public and private, of the two parties, shall be reciprocally admitted with their prizes into the respective ports of each ; but the said prizes shall not be discharged nor sold there, until their legality shall have been decided, according to the laws and regulations of the states to which the captor belongs, but by the judicatures of the place into which the prize shall have been conducted. 5. It shall be free to each party to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary for the conduct of their respective vessels of war , public and private, relative to the vessels which they shall take and carry into the ports of the two parties.

Convoys in certain cases.

ARTICLE XXII
Where the parties shall have a common enemy, or shall both be neutral , the vessels of war of each shall , upon all occasions , take under their protection the vessels of the other going the same course, and shall defend such vessels as long as they hold the same course, against all force and violence, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend vessels belonging to the party of which they are.
ARTICLE XXIII.
If war should arise between the two contracting parties, the merchants of either country, then residing in the other, shall be allowed to remain

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

95

dans le port de l'autre partie, mais elles pourront en sortir librement, et être conduites en tout temps par le vaisseau preneur aux endroits portés par les commissions, dont l'officier commandant le dit vaisseau sera obligé de faire montre. Mais tout vaisseau qui aura fait des prises sur les sujets de S. M. T. C. le Roi de France, ne sauroit obtenir un droit d'asile dans les ports ou havres des États Unis ; et s'il étoit forcé d'y entrer par des tempêtes ou dangers de mer, il sera obligé d'en repartir le plutôt possible, conformement à la teneur des traités subsistants entre S. M. T. C. et les Etats Unis.
ARTICLE XX.
Aucun citoyen ou sujet de l'une des deux parties contractantes n'acceptera d'une puissance avec laquelle l'autre pourroit être en guerre, ni commission , ni lettre de marque, pour armer en course contre cette derniere, sous peine d'être puni comme pirate. Et ni l'un ni l'autre des deux Etats ne louera, prêtera ou donnera une partie de ses forces navales ou militaires à l'ennemi de l'autre, pour l'aider à agir offensivement ou défensivement contre l'état qui est en guerre.
ARTICLE XXI.
S'il arrivoit que les deux parties contractantes fussent en même temps en guerre contre un ennemi commun, on observera de part et d'autre les points suivants.
1. Si les bâtimens de l'une des deux nations repris par les armateurs de l'autre, n'ont pas été au pouvoir de l'ennemi au de la de 24 heures, ils seront restitués au premier proprietaire moyennant le payement du tiers de la valeur du bâtiment et de la cargaison : si au contraire le vaisseau repris a été plus de 24 heures au pouvoir de l'ennemi, il appartiendra en entier à celui qui l'a repris. 2. Dans le cas qu'un navire est repris par un vaisseau de guerre de l'une des puissances contractantes, il sera rendu au propriétaire, moyennant qu'il paye un trentieme du navire et de la cargaison, si le batiment n'a pas été plus de 24 heures au pouvoir de l'ennemi , et le dixieme de cette valeur, s'il y a été plus long-temps, lesquelles sommes seront distribuées en guise de gratification à ceux qui l'auront repris. 3. Dans ces cas la restitution n'aura lieu qu'après les preuves faites de la propriété, sous caution de la quotepart qui en revient à celui qui a repris le navire. 4. Les vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers des deux parties contractantes seront admis réciproquement avec leur prises dans les ports respectifs ; cependant ces prises ne pourront y être dechargées ni vendues, qu'après que la légitimité de la prise aura été décidée suivant les loix et réglemens de l'état dont le préneur est sujet, mais par la justice du lieu où la prise aura été conduite. 5. Il sera libre à chacune des parties contractantes de faire tels réglemens qu'elles jugeront nécessaires, relativement à la conduite que devront tenir respectivement leurs vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers, à l'égard des bâtiments qu'ils auront pris et amenés dans les ports des deux puissances.
ARTICLE XXII.
Lorsque les parties contractantes seront engagées en guerre contre un ennemi commun , ou qu'elles seront neutres toutes deux, les vaisseaux de guerre de l'une prendront en toute occasion, sous leur protection, les navires de l'autre, qui font avec eux la même route, et ils les defendront, aussi long-temps qu'ils feront voile ensemble, contre toute force et violence et de la même maniere qu'ils protegeroient et défendroient les navires de leur propre nation .
ARTICLE XXIII.
S'il survient une guerre entre les parties contractantes, les marchands de l'un des deux Etats qui resideront dans l'autre, auront la permission

96

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

In case of war, nine months to collect their debts and settle their affairs, and may depart

bnienaelmloonwtedhstoto freely, carrying off all their effects, without molestation or hindrance: citizens to settle And all women and children, scholars of every faculty, cultivators of
their affairs. the earth, artizans, manufacturers and fishermen unarmed and inhabit-

ing unfortified towns, villages or places, and in general all others whose

occupations are for the common subsistence and benefit of mankind ,

shall be allowed to continue their respective employments, and shall not

be molested in their persons, nor shall their houses or goods be burnt,

or otherwise destroyed , nor their fields wasted by the armed force of

Principles of the enemy, into whose power, by the events of war, they may happen conducting war. to fall ; but if any thing is necessary to be taken from them for the use

of such armed force, the same shall be paid for at a reasonable price.

And all merchant and trading vessels employed in exchanging the pro-

ducts of different places, and thereby rendering the necessaries, con-

veniences and comforts of human life more easy to be obtained, and

No commis- more general, shall be allowed to pass free and unmolested ; and neither

sions to be

of the contracting powers shall grant or issue any commission to any

gvraatentaerdmteodprvie-s- private armed vessels, empowering them to take or destroy such trading

sels.

vessels or interrupt such commerce.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Treatment of And to prevent the destruction of prisoners of war, by sending them

prisoners ofwar into distant and inclement countries, or by crouding them into close and

regulated.

noxious places, the two contracting parties solemnly pledge themselves

to each other, and to the world, that they will not adopt any such practice ;

that neither will send the prisoners whom they may take from the other

into the East-Indies, or any other parts of Asia or Africa, but that they

shall be placed in some part of their dominions in Europe or America,

in wholesome situations ; that they shall not be confined in dungeons,

prison-ships, nor prisons, nor be put into irons, nor bound, nor otherwise restrained in the use of their limbs ; that the officers shall be en-

larged on their paroles within convenient districts, and have comfortable

quarters, and the common men be disposed in cantonments open and

extensive enough for air and exercise, and lodged in barracks as roomly

and good as are provided by the party in whose power they are for their

own troops ; that the officers shall also be daily furnished by the party in whose power they are, with as many rations, and of the same articles

and quality as are allowed by them , either in kind or by commutation , to officers of equal rank in their own army ; and all others shall be daily

furnished by them with such ration as they allow to a common soldier

in their own service ; the value whereof shall be paid by the other party

on a mutual adjustment of accounts for the subsistence of prisoners at the close of the war ; and the said accounts shall not be mingled with, or set off against any others, nor the ballances due on them, be witheld

as a satisfaction or reprisal for any other article, or for any other cause,

real or pretended , whatever ; that each party shall be allowed to keep a

commissary of prisoners of their own appointment, with every separate

cantonment of prisoners in possession of the other, which commissary

shall see the prisoners as often as he pleases, shall be allowed to receive

and distribute whatever comforts may be sent to them by their friends ,

and shall be free to make his reports in open letters to those who employ

him ; but if any officer shall break his parole, or any other prisoner shall escape from the limits of his cantonment, after they shall have been

designated to him, such individual officer or other prisoner , shall forfeit so much of the benefit of this article as provides for his enlargement on parole or cantonment. And it is declared , that neither the pretence

that war dissolves all treaties, nor any other whatever , shall be considered

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

97

d'y rester encore neuf mois, pour recueillir leurs dettes actives, et arranger leurs affaires, après quoi ils pourront partir en toute liberté et emporter tous leurs biens, sans être molestés ni empêchés. Les femmes et les enfans, les gens de lettres de toutes les facultés, les cultivateurs, artisans, manufacturiers et pêcheurs, qui ne sont point armés et qui habitent des villes, villages ou places qui ne sont pas fortifiés, et en général tous ceux dont la vocation tend à la subsistance et à l'avantage commun du genre humain, auront la liberté de continuer leurs professions respectives, et ne seront point molestés en leurs personnes, ni leurs maisons, ou leurs biens incendiés, ou autrement detruits, ni leur champs ravagés par les armées de l'ennemi au pouvoir duquel ils pourroient tomber par les évenemens de la guerre ; mais si l'on se trouve dans la necessité de prendre quelque chose de leurs propriétés pour l'usage de l'armée ennemie, la valeur en sera payée à un prix raisonnable. Tous
les vaisseaux marchands et commerçans, employés à l'échange des productions de differens endroits, et par consequent destinés a faciliter et repandre les nécessités, les commodités et les douceurs de la vie, passeront librement et sans être molestés. Et les deux puissances contractantes s'engagent à n'accorder aucune commission à des vaisseaux armés en course, qui les autorisât à prendre ou à detruire ces sortes de vaisseaux marchands, ou à interrompre le commerce.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Afin d'adoucir le sort de prisoñiers de guerre, et ne les point ex-

poser à être envoyés dans des climats éloignés et rigoureux, ou resserrés

dans des habitations étroites et malsaines, les deux parties contractantes

s'engagent solemnellement l'une envers l'autre, et à la face de l'univers,

qu'elles n'adopteront aucun de ces usages ; que les prisonniers qu'elles

pourroient faire l'une sur l'autre ne seront transportés ni aux Indes

Orientales, ni dans aucune contrée de l'Asie ou de l'Afrique, mais qu'on

leur assignera en Europe ou en Amérique, dans les territoirs respectifs

des parties contractantes, un séjour situé dans un air sain ; qu'ils ne

seront point confinés dans des cachots, ni dans des prisons, ni dans des

vaisseaux de prison ; qu'ils ne seront pas mis au fers, ni garotés, ni

autrement privés de l'usage de leurs membres ; que les officiers seront relâchés sur leur parole d'honneur, dans l'enceinte de certains districts

qui leur seront fixés, et qu'on leur accordera des logemens commodes ;

que les simples soldats seront distribués dans des cantonnemens ouverts,

assez vastes pour prendre l'air et l'excercice, et qu'ils seront logés dans

des barraques aussi spatieuses et aussi commodes que le sont celles des

troupes de la puissance au pouvoir delaquelle se trouvent les prisoñiers. Que cette puissance fera pourvoir journellement les officiers d'autant

de rations, composées des mêmes articles et de la même qualité, dont

jouissent en nature ou en équivalent, les officiers du même rang qui

sont à son propre service ; qu'elle fournira également à tous les autres

prisoñiers une ration pareille à celle qui est accordée au soldat de sa

propre armée. Le montant de ces depenses sera payé par l'autre puis-

sance, d'après une liquidation de compte à arrêter reciproquement pour l'entretien des prisonniers a la fin de la guerre ; et ces comptes ne

seront point confondus ou balancés avec d'autres comptes, ni la solde

qui en est due, retenue comme compensation ou représailles, pour tel

autre article ou telle autre prétention réelle ou supposée. Il sera permis

à chacune des deux puissances d'entretenir un commissaire de leur

choix , dans chaque cantonnement des prisonniers qui sont au pouvoir de

l'autre ; ces commissaires auront la liberté de visiter les prisoñiers, aussi

souvent qu'ils le desireront ; ils pourront également recevoir et distribuer

les douceurs que les parens ou amis des prisoniers leur feront parvenir. Enfin il leur sera libre encore de faire leurs rapports par lettres ouvertes,

à ceux qui les employent ; mais si un officier manquoit à sa parole

VOL. VIII. 13

I

98

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

as annulling or suspending this and the next preceding article ; but, on the contrary, that the state of war is precisely that for which they are provided, and during which they are to be as sacredly observed as the most acknowledged articles in the law of nature or nations.

Consuls, &c. to be allowed in the ports of each nation.

ARTICLE XXV.
The two contracting parties grant to each other the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries of their own appointment, whose functions shall be regulated by particular agreement whenever either party shall chuse to make such appointment ; but if any such consuls shall exercise commerce, they shall be submitted to the same laws and usages to which the private individuals of their nation are submitted in the same place.

ARTICLE XXVI.

All favours
granted to another nation by one party shall become common to the other.

If either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation, any particular favour in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become common to the other party, freely, where it is freely granted, to such other nation, or on yielding the compensation where such nation does the same.

Duration of the treaty.

ARTICLE XXVII.
His Majesty the King of Prussia, and the United States of America, agree, that this treaty shall be in force during the term of ten years from the exchange of ratifications ; and if the expiration of that term should happen during the course of a war between them, then the articles before provided for the regulation of their conduct during such a war, shall continue in force until the conclusion of the treaty which shall re-establish peace ; and that this treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications exchanged within one year from the day of its signature.

In testimony whereof, the Plenipotentiaries before mentioned, have hereto subscribed their names, and affixed their seals, at the places
of their respective residence, and at the dates expressed under their several signatures.

F. G. DE THULEMEIER. A la Haye le 10 Septembre, 1785.
JOHN ADAMS.
London, August 5, 1785. B. FRANKLIN.
Passy, July 9, 1785. TH. JEFFERSON.
Pari: July 28, 1785.

(L. s.) (L. s.) (L. S.) (L. s.)

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1785.

99

d'honneur, ou qu'un autre prisonier sortit des limites qui auront été fixées à son cantonnement, un tel officier ou un autre prisonnier sera frustre individuellement des avantages stipulés dans cet article, pour sa relaxation sur parole d'honneur ou pour son cantonnement. Les deux puissances contractantes ont declaré en outre, que, ni le prétexte que la guerre rompt les traités, ni tel autre motif quelconque, ne seront cencés annuller ou suspendre cet article et le précédent ; mais qu'au contraire le temps de la guerre est précisément celui pour lequel ils ont été stipulés, et durant lequel ils seront observés aussi saintement que les articles les plus universellement reconnus par le droit de la nature et des gens.
ARTICLE XXV.
Les deux parties contractantes se sont accordé mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs, des consuls, vice-consuls, agens et commissaires de leur choix et dont les fonctions seront determinées par un arrangement particulier, lorsque l'une des deux puissances aura nommé à ces postes. Mais dans le cas que tel, ou autre de ces consuls, veuille faire le commerce, il sera soumis aux mêmes loix et usages, aux-quels sont soumis les particuliers de sa nation à l'endroit où il réside.
ARTICLE XXVI.
Lorsque l'une des deux parties contractantes accordera dans la suite quelque faveur particuliére en fait de navigation ou de commerce à d'autres nations, elle deviendra aussitôt commune à l'autre partie contractante, et celle-ci jouira de cette faveur, gratuitement, si la concession est gratuite, ou en accordant la même compensation si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE XXVII.
Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse et les Etats Unis de l'Amerique sont convenus que le présent traité aura son plein effet pendant l'espace de dix ans à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications, et que si l'expiration de ce terme arrivoit dans le cours d'une guerre entre eux, les articles ci-dessus stipulés pour regler leur conduite en temps de guerre, conserveront toute leur force, jusqu'à la conclusion du traité qui retablira la paix. Le présent traité sera ratifié de part et d'autre, et les ratifications seront échangées, dans l'espace d'une année, à compter du jour de la signature.

En foi de quoi les Plenipotentiaires sus nommés ont signé le présent traité et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes, aux lieux de leur domicile respectif, ainsi qu'il sera exprimé ci-dessous.

F. G. DE THULEMEIER. A la Haye le 10 Septembre, 1785.
JOHN ADAMS. London, August 5, 1785.
B. FRANKLIN. Passy, July 9, 1785.
TH. JEFFERSON. Paris, July 28, 1785.

(L. S.) (L. S.) (L. 8.) (L. 8.)

TREATY OF PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP

Between the United States of America, and His Imperia Majesty the Emperor of Morocco. ( a)

January, 1787.

To all Persons to whom these Presents shall come or be made known. WHEREAS the United States of America, in Congress assembled, by their commission bearing date the twelfth day of May, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four, thought proper to constitute John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson, their Ministers Plenipotentiary, giving to them, or a majority of them, full powers to confer, treat and negociate with the Ambassador, Minister, or Commissioner of his Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, concerning a treaty of amity and commerce ; to make and receive propositions for such treaty, and to conclude and sign the same, transmitting it to the United States in Congress assembled, for their final ratification ; and by one other commission, bearing date the eleventh day of March, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, did further empower the said Ministers Plenipotentiary, or a majority of them, by writing under their hands and seals, to appoint such agent in the said business as they might think proper, with authority under the directions and instructions of the said Ministers, to commence and prosecute the said negociations and conferences for the said treaty, provided that the said treaty should be signed by the said Ministers : And whereas we, the said John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, two of the said Ministers Plenipotentiary (the said Benjamin Franklin being absent) by writing under the hand and seal of the said John Adams at London, October the fifth, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, and of the said Thomas Jefferson at Paris, October the eleventh of the same year, did appoint Thomas Barclay, agent in the business aforesaid, giving him the powers therein, which, by the said second commission, we were authorized to give, and the said Thomas Barclay, in pursuance thereof, hath arranged articles for a treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America, and his Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, which articles, written in the Arabic language, confirmed by his said Majesty the Emperor of Morocco, and sealed with his royal seal, being translated into the language of the said United States of America, together with the attestations thereto annexed, are in the following words, to wit :

ROYAL SEAL.

In the Name of ALMIGHTY GOD.
This is a Treaty of Peace and Friendship established between us and the United States of America, which is confirmed, and which we have ordered to be written in this book, and sealed with our royal seal , at our court of Morocco, on the twenty-fifth day of the blessed month of Shaban, in the year one thousand two hundred, trusting in God it will remain permanent.
ARTICLE I.

We declare that both parties have agreed that this treaty, consisting

(a) By "an act making an appropriation for the purpose therein mentioned ," passed March 3, 1791 , Laws U. S. vcl. 1 , 214, twenty thousand dollars are appropriated for effecting a negotiation of the treaty with Morocco, September 16, 1836, post, 484.
(100)

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

101

of twenty-five articles, shall be inserted in this book, and delivered to the Honorable Thomas Barclay, the agent of the United States, now at
our court, with whose approbation it has been made, and who is duly authorized on their part to treat with us concerning all the matters contained therein.

Emperor's consent to the
treaty .

ARTICLE II.

If either of the parties shall be at war with any nation whatever, the Neither party

other party shall not take a commission from the enemy, nor fight under mshiaslsliotnakferocmom.

their colours.

the enemy of

ARTICLE III.

the other.

If either ofthe parties shall be at war with any nation whatever, and take a prize belonging to that nation, and there shall be found on board
subjects or effects belonging to either of the parties, the subjects shall be set at liberty, and the effects returned to the owners. And if any

Regulation in ctuarseeso. f cap.

goods belonging to any nation, with whom either of the parties shall be

at war, shall be loaded on vessels belonging to the other party, they shall

pass free and unmolested, without any attempt being made to take or detain them.

ARTICLE IV.

A signal or pass shall be given to all vessels belonging to both parties, by which they are to be known when they meet at sea ; and ifthe commander of a ship of war of either party shall have other ships under his convoy, the declaration of the commander shall alone be sufficient to exempt any of them from examination .

Signal or pass tvoesbseelgsi. ven to

ARTICLE V.

If either of the parties shall be at war, and shall meet a vessel at sea How vessels belonging to the other, it is agreed, that if an examination is to be sahmailnlebdeienx-time made, it shall be done by sending a boat with two or three men only; of war. and if any gun shall be fired, and injury done without reason, the
offending party shall make good all damages.

ARTICLE VI.

If any Moor shall bring citizens of the United States, or their effects, to his Majesty, the citizens shall immediately be set at liberty, and the effects restored ; and in like manner, if any Moor, not a subject of these dominions, shall make prize of any of the citizens of America, or their effects, and bring them into any of the ports of his Majesty, they shall be immediately released, as they will then be considered as under his

Citizens of the tUo.bSe.rcealpetausrede.d,

Majesty's protection.

ARTICLE VII.

If any vessel of either party shall put into a port of the other, and Vessels want.
have occasion for provisions or other supplies, they shall be furnished ibnegfsuurpnpilsiheesd,.to without any interruption or molestation.

ARTICLE VIII.

If any vessel of the United States shall meet with a disaster at sea, Provision in
and put into one of our ports to repair, she shall be at liberty to land case of misfor tune.
and re-load her cargo, without paying any duty whatever.

ARTICLE IX.

If any vessel of the United States shall be cast on shore on any part of our coasts, she shall remain at the disposition of the owners, and no
one shall attempt going near her without their approbation, as she is 12

102

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

Regulation in case of shipwreck, and
being forced into port.

then considered particularly under our protection ; and if any vessel of the United States shall be forced to put into our ports by stress of weather, or otherwise, she shall not be compelled to land her cargo, but shall remain in tranquility until the commander shall think proper to proceed on his voyage.

Vessels protected in certain cases.

ARTICLE X.
If any vessel of either of the parties shall have an engagement with a vessel belonging to any of the Christian powers within gun shot of the forts of the other, the vessel so engaged shall be defended and protected as much as possible until she is in safety ; and if any American vessel shall be cast on shore on the coast of Wadnoon, or any coast thereabout, the people belonging to her shall be protected and assisted, until, by the help of God, they shall be sent to their country.

Privileges of vessels in case
of war.

ARTICLE XI.
If we shall be at war with any Christian power, and any of our vessels sail from the ports of the United States, no vessel belonging to the enemy, shall follow until twenty-four hours after the departure of our vessels ; and the same regulation shall be observed towards the American vessels sailing from our ports, be their enemies Moors or Christians.

ARTICLE XII.

Ships of war belonging to U. S. not to be examined.

If any ship of war belonging to the United States shall put into any of our ports, she shall not be examined on any pretence whatever, even though she should have fugitive slaves on board, nor shall the governor or commander of the place compel them to be brought on shore on any pretext, nor require any payment for them.

Ships of war to be saluted.

ARTICLE XIII .
If a ship of war of either party shall put into a port of the other and salute, it shall be returned from the fort with an equal number of guns, not with more or less.

ARTICLE XIV.
Commerce on The commerce with the United States shall be on the same footing the footing of as is the commerce with Spain, or as that with the most favoured nation the most favoured nation. for the time being ; and their citizens shall be respected and esteemed,
and have full liberty to pass and repass our country and seaports whenever they please, without interruption.
ARTICLE XV.

Privileges of merchants.

Merchants of both countries shall employ only such interpreters, and
such other persons to assist them in their business, as they shall think proper. No commander of a vessel shall transport his cargo on board another vessel ; he shall not be detained in port longer than he may
think proper ; and all persons employed in loading or unloading goods, or in any other labour whatever, shall be paid at the customary rates, not more and not less.

ARTICLE XVI.

In case ofwar,
bpreiesonnselrasvendo,t to but exchanged.

In case of a war between the parties, the prisoners are not to be made slaves, but to be exchanged one for another, captain for captain, officer for officer, and one private man for another ; and if there shall prove a deficiency on either side, it shall be made up by the payment of one hundred Mexican dollars for each person wanting. And it is

agreed that all prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months from the

time of their being taken , and that this exchange may be effected by a

merchant or any other person authorized by either of the parties.

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

103

ARTICLE XVII.

Merchants

may buy and Merchants shall not be compelled to buy or sell any kind of goods sell all goods

but such as they shall think proper ; and may buy and sell all sorts of except those merchandize but such as are prohibited to the other Christian nations. portohheirbCihtreidsttioan
nations.

ARTICLE XVIII.

All goods shall be weighed and examined before they are sent on Goods to be board, and to avoid all detention of vessels, no examination shall after examined be.
wards be made, unless it shall first be proved that contraband goods fbooraersde,natnodnnot have been sent on board, in which case, the persons who took the con- after, unless in traband goods on board, shall be punished according to the usage and case offraud. custom of the country, and no other person whatever shall be injured,
nor shall the ship or cargo incur any penalty or damage whatever.

ARTICLE XIX.
No vessel shall be detained in port on any pretence whatever, nor be Vessels not to obliged to take on board any articles without the consent of the com- be detained. mander, who shall be at full liberty to agree for the freight of any goods he takes on board.
ARTICLE XX.
If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their How disputes protection, shall have any disputes with each other, the consul shall shall be settled. decide between the parties, and whenever the consul shall require any aid or assistance from our government, to enforce his decisions, it shall be immediately granted to him.

ARTICLE XXI.

If a citizen of the United States should kill or wound a Moor, or, on
the contrary, if a Moor shall kill or wound a citizen of the United States, the law of the country shall take place, and equal justice shall be rendered, the consul assisting at the trial ; and if any delinquent shall make his escape, the consul shall not be answerable for him in any manner whatever.

How crimes shall be punished.

ARTICLE XXII.
If an American citizen shall die in our country, and no will shall How estates appear, the consul shall take possession of his effects ; and if there shall of deceased
citizens shall be be no consul, the effects shall be deposited in the hands of some person disposed of. worthy of trust, until the party shall appear who has a right to demand them ; but if the heir to the person deceased be present, the property
shall be delivered to him without interruption ; and if a will shall appear, the property shall descend agreeable to that will as soon as the consul shall declare the validity thereof.

ARTICLE XXIII
The consuls of the United States of America, shall reside in any sea- Consuls and port of our dominions that they shall think proper ; and they shall be their privilege.s respected, and enjoy all the privileges which the consuls of any other nation enjoy ; and if any of the citizens of the United States shall contract any debts or engagements, the consul shall not be in any manner accountable for them, unless he shall have given a promise in writing for the payment or fulfilling thereof, without which promise in writing, no application to him for any redress shall be made.

104

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Regulations in case of war.

If any differences shall arise by either party infringing on any of the articles of this treaty, peace and harmony shall remain notwithstanding,
in the fullest force, until a friendly application shall be made for an arrangement, and until that application shall be rejected, no appeal shall be made to arms. And if a war shall break out between the parties,
nine months shall be granted to all the subjects of both parties, to dispose of their effects and retire with their property. And it is further declared, that whatever indulgences, in trade or otherwise, shall be granted to any of the Christian Powers, the citizens of the United States shall be equally entitled to them.

Duration of treaty.

ARTICLE XXV
This treaty shall continue in full force, with the help of God , for fifty years.

We have delivered this book into the hands of the beforementioned Thomas Barclay, on the first day of the blessed month of Ramadan , in the year one thousand two hundred.

I certify that the annexed is a true copy of the translation made by Isaac Cardoza Nunez, interpreter at Morocco, of the treaty between the Emperor of Morocco and the United States of America.

THOMAS BARCLAY.

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE.

Vessels of

Grace to the only GOD. I, the under-written, the servant of God, Taher Ben Abdelkack Fen-

tUe.ctSe.dt. o be pro-

nish, do certify, that His Imperial Majesty, my master, (whom God pre-
serve,) having concluded a treaty of peace and commerce with the United States of America, has ordered me, the better to compleat it, and in addition of the tenth article of the treaty, to declare, " That if

any vessel belonging to the United States, shall be in any of the ports

of his Majesty's dominions, or within gun-shot of his forts, she shall be

protected as much as possible ; and no vessel whatever, belonging either

to Moorish or Christian Powers, with whom the United States may be

at war, shall be permitted to follow or engage her, as we now deem the

citizens of America our good friends." And, in obedience to his Majesty's commands, I certify this declara-
tion, by putting my hand and seal to it, on the eighteenth day of Ramadan, (a) in the year one thousand two hundred.

The servant of the King, my master, whom God preserve,

TAHER BEN ABDELKACK FENNISH .

I do certify that the above is a true copy of the translation made at Morocco, by Isaac Cordoza Nunez , interpreter, of a declaration made and signed by Sidi Hage Taher Fennish, in addition to the treaty between the Emperor of Morocco and the United States of America, which declaration the said Taher Fennish made by the express directions of his Majesty.
THOMAS BARCLAY .
(a) The Ramadan of the year of the Hegira 1200 , commenced on the 28th June, in the year of our Lord 1786.

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1787.

105

Now, KNOW YE, That we, the said John Adams and Thomas Jeffer-
son, Ministers Plenipotentiary aforesaid, do approve and conclude the said treaty, and every article and clause therein contained, reserving the same nevertheless to the United States in Congress assembled, for their final ratification.

In testimony whereof, we have signed the same with our names and seals, at the places of our respective residence, and at the dates expressed under our signatures respectively.

JOHN ADAMS, London, January 25th, 1787.

(L. S.)

THOMAS JEFFERSON, (L. s.) Paris, January 1st, 1787

VOL. VIII.

14

CONVENTION
Between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America.

CONVENTION

Between His Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, for the Purpose of defining and establishing the Functions and Privileges of their respective Consuls and ViceConsuls. (a)
Nov. 14, 1788. His Majesty the Most Christian King, and the United States of America, having, by the twenty-ninth article of the treaty of amity and commerce concluded between them, mutually granted the liberty of having, in their respective states and ports, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries, and being willing, in consequence thereof, to define and establish, in a reciprocal and permanent manner, the functions and privileges of consuls and vice-consuls, which they have judged it convenient to establish of preference, His Most Christian Majesty has nominated the Sieur Count of Montmorin, of St. Herent, Marechal of his Camps and Armies, Knight of his Orders and of the Golden Fleece, his Counsellor in all his Councils, Minister and Secretary of State, and of his Commandments and Finances, having the department of Foreign Affairs ; and the United States have nominated the Sieur Thomas Jefferson, citizen of the United States of America, and their Minister Plenipotentiary near the King, who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, have agreed on what follows :

ARTICLE I.

Consuls to pre. sent commissions, and to be entitled to an
exequatur.

The consuls and vice-consuls named by the Most Christian King and the United States, shall be bound to present their commissions accord-
ing to the forms which shall be established respectively by the Most Christian King within his dominions, and by the Congress within the United States. There shall be delivered to them, without any charges,

the exequatur necessary for the exercise of their functions ; and on ex-

hibiting the said exequatur, the governors, commanders, heads of justice, bodies corporate, tribunals and other officers having authority in the

ports and places of their consulates, shall cause them to enjoy immedi-

ately, and without difficulty, the pre-eminences, authority, and privileges,

reciprocally granted, without exacting from the said consuls and viceconsuls any fee, under any pretext whatever.

Privileges of consuls.

ARTICLE II.
The consuls and vice-consuls, and persons attached to their functions ; that is to say : their chancellors and secretaries, shall enjoy a full and entire immunity for their chancery, and the papers which shall be therein contained. They shall be exempt from all personal service, from soldiers' billets, militia, watch, guard, guardianship , trustee-ship,

(a) An act to declare the treaties heretofore concluded with France no longer obligatory on the United States. July 7, 1798 ; Laws U. S. vol. 1 , 578.
(106)

CONVENTION
Entre le Roi très Chrétien, et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique.
CONVENTION
Entre le Roi très Chrétien, et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique, à l'effet de déterminer et fixer les fonctions et prérogatives des Consuls et Vice-Consuls respectifs.
SA Majesté le Roi très Chrétien , et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique, s'étant accordés mutuellement par l'art. XXIX , du traité d'amitié et de commerce conclu entr'eux, la liberté de tenir dans leurs Etats et ports respectifs, des consuls, et vice-consuls, agens et commissaires, et voulant en conséquence déterminer et fixer d'une manière réciproque et permanente, les fonctions et prérogatives des consuls, et vice-consuls qu'ils ont jugé convenable d'établir de préférence, sa Majesté très Chrétienne a nommé le Sieur Comte de Montmorin de St. Herent, maréchal de ses camps et armées, chevalier de ses ordres et de la toison-d'or, son conseiller en tous ses conseils, ministre et sécrétaire d'etat et de ses commandements et finances, aïant le département des affaires etrangères ; et les Etats Unis ont nommé le Sieur Thomas Jefferson, citoyen des Etats Unis de l'Amérique, et leur ministre plénipotentiaire auprès du Roi, lesquels, après s'être communiqué leurs plein-pouvoirs respectifs sont convenus de ce qui suit.
ARTICLE I.
Les consuls et vice-consuls nommés par le Roi très Chrétien et les Etas Unis seront tenus de présenter leurs provisions selon la forme qui se trouvera établie respectivement par le Roi très Chrétien dans ses Etats, et par le Congrès dans les Etats Unis. On leur delivrera sans aucuns fraîx l'exequatur nécessaire à l'éxercice de leurs fonctions, et sur l'exhibition qu'ils feront du dit exequatur, les gouverneurs, commandants, chefs de justice, les corps, tribunaux ou autres officiers aïant autorité dans les ports et lieux de leurs consulats, les y feront jouïr aussitôt et sans difficulté des prééminences, autorité et priviléges accordés réciproquement, sans qu'ils puissent éxiger des dits consuls et vice-consuls aucun droit sous aucun prétexte quelconque.
ARTICLE II.
Les consuls et vice-consuls et les personnes attacheés à leurs fonctions, savoir, leurs chanceliers et sécrétaires, jouiront d'une pleine et entière immunité pour leur chancellerie et les papiers qui y seront renfermés. Ils seront exemts de tout service personnel, logement des gens de guerre, milice, guet, garde, tutelle, curatelle, ainsi que de tous droits,
(107)

108

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE . 1789.

as well as from all duties, taxes, impositions and charges whatsoever, except on the estate real and personal of which they may be the proprietors or possessors, which shall be subject to the taxes imposed on the estates of all other individuals : And in all other instances they shall be subject to the laws of the land as the natives are. Those of the said consuls and vice-consuls who shall exercise commerce, shall be
respectively subject to all taxes, charges and impositions established on other merchants. They shall place over the outward door of their house, the arms of their sovereign ; but this mark of indication shall not give to the said house any privilege of asylum for any person or property whatsoever.

ARTICLE III.

Consuls may appoint agents.

The respective consuls and vice-consuls may establish agents in the different ports and places of their departments where necessity shall require. These agents may be chosen among the merchants, either national or foreign, and furnished with a commission from one of the said consuls : They shall confine themselves respectively to the rendering to their respective merchants, navigators and vessels, all possible service, and to inform the nearest consul of the wants of the said merchants, navigators and vessels, without the said agents otherwise participating in the immunities, rights and privileges attributed to consuls and vice-consuls, and without power under any pretext whatever,
to exact from the said merchants any duty or emolument whatsoever.
ARTICLE IV.

Consuls may establish a chancery.

The consuls and vice-consuls respectively may establish a chancery, where shall be deposited the consular determinations, acts and proceedings, as also testaments, obligations, contracts, and other acts done by or between persons of their nation, and effects left by deceased persons, or saved from shipwreck. They may consequently appoint fit persons to act in the said chancery, receive and swear them in, commit to them the custody of the seal, and authority to seal commissions, sen-
tences and other consular acts, and also to discharge the functions of notary and register of the consulate.

ARTICLE V.

Power and

The consuls and vice-consuls respectively shall have the exclusive

duty ofconsuls. right of receiving in their chancery, or on board of vessels, the declara-

tions and all other the acts, which the captains, masters, crews, passen-

gers, and merchants of their nation may chuse to make there, even their testaments and other disposals by last will : And the copies of the said acts, duly authenticated by the said consuls or vice-consuls, under

the seal of their consulate, shall receive faith in law, equally as their originals would, in all the tribunals of the dominions of the Most Chris-

tian King, and of the United States. They shall also have, and exclu-

sively, in case of the absence ofthe testamentary executor, administrator

or legal heir, the right to inventory, liquidate and proceed to the sale of the personal estate left by subjects or citizens of their nation , who shall

die within the extent of their consulate ; they shall proceed therein with the assistance of two merchants of their said nation, or for want of

them , of any other at their choice, and shall cause to be deposited in their chancery, the effects and papers of the said estates ; and no officer,

military, judiciary, or of the police of the country, shall disturb them or interfere therein , in any manner whatsoever : but the said consuls and vice-consuls shall not deliver up the said effects, nor the proceeds

thereof, to the lawful heirs, or to their order, till they shall have caused to be paid all debts which the deceased shall have contracted in the

country ; for which purpose the creditors shall have a right to attach the

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

109

taxes, impositions et charges quelconques, à l'exception seulement des biens meubles et immeubles dont ils seroient propriétaires ou posses-
seurs, lesquels seront assujettis aux taxes imposées sur ceux de tous autres particuliers, et à tous égards ils demeureront sujets aux loix du païs comme les nationaux. Ceux des dits consuls et vice-consuls qui feront le commerce seront respectivement assujettis à toutes les taxes, charges et impositions établies sur les autres négociants. Ils placeront sur la porte extérieure de leurs maisons les armes de leur souverain, sans que cette marque distinctive puisse donner aux dites maisons le droit d'asîle, soit pour des personnes, soit pour des effets quelconques. ·

ARTICLE III.
Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs pourront établir des agens dans les différens ports et lieux de leurs départements où le besoin l'éxigera ; ces agens pourront être choisis parmi les négociants nationaux ou étrangers, et munis de la commission de l'un des dits consuls. Ils se renfermeront respectivement à rendre aux commercants, navigateurs et batiments respectifs, tous les services possibles, et à informer le consul le plus proche des besoins des dits commercants, navigateurs et batiments, sans que les dits agens puissent autrement participer aux immunités, droits et priviléges attribués aux consuls et vice-consuls , et sans pouvoir sous aucun prétexte que ce soit, éxiger aucun droit ou émolument quelconque des dits commercants.
ARTICLE IV.
Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs pourront établir une chancellerie où seront déposés les délibérations, actes et procédures consulaires, ainsi que les testaments, obligations, contrats, et autres actes faits par les nationaux ou entr'eux, et les effets délaissés par mort, ou sauvés des naufrages. Ils pourront en conséquence commettre à l'exercice de la dite chancellerie des personnes capables, les recevoir, leur faire prêter serment, leur donner la garde du sceau et le droit de sceller les commissions, jugements et autres actes consulaires , ainsi que d'y remplir les fonctions de notaire et greffiers du consulat.
ARTICLE V.
Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs auront le droit exclusif de recevoir dans leur chancellerie, ou à bord des batiments, les déclarations et tous les autres actes que les capitaines, patrons, equipages, passagers, et négociants de leur nation voudront y passer, même leur testament et autres dispositions de derniére volonté, et les dispositions des dits actes duement legalisés par les dits consuls ou vice-consuls, et munis du sceau de leur consulat, feront foi en justice comme le feroient les originaux dans tous les tribunaux des états du Roi très Chrétien et des Etats Unis. Ils auront aussi, et exclusivement, en cas d' absence d'éxécuteur testamentaire, curateur ou héritiers légitimes, le droit de faire l'inventaire, la liquidation et de procéder à la vente des effets mobiliers de la succession des sujets ou citoyens de leur nation , qui viendront à mourir dans l'étendue de leur consulat. Ils y procéderont avec l'assistance de deux négocians de leur dite nation , ou à leur défaut, de tout autre à leur choix, et feront déposer dans leur chancellerie les effets et papiers des dites successions, sans qu'aucuns officiers militaires, de justice, ou de police du païs, puissent les y troubler, ni y intervenir de quelque manière que ce soit ; mais les dits consuls et vice-consuls ne pourront faire la déliverance des successions et de leur produit aux héritiers légitimes, ou à leurs mandataires, qu'après avoir fait aquitter toutes les dettes que les défunts auront pû avoir contracteés dans le païs ; à l'effet de quoi les créanciers auront droit de saisir les dits effets dans leurs
K

110

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

said effects in their hands, as they might in those of any other individual whatever, and proceed to obtain sale of them till payment of what shall be lawfully due to them. When the debts shall not have been con-
tracted by judgment, deed or note, the signature whereof shall be known, payment shall not be ordered but on the creditor's giving sufficient surety, resident in the country, to refund the sums he shall have
unduly received, principal, interest and costs ; which surety nevertheless shall stand duly discharged, after the term of one year in time of peace, and of two in time of war, if the demand in discharge cannot be formed before the end of this term against the heirs who shall present themselves. And in order that the heirs may not be unjustly kept out of the effects of the deceased , the consuls and vice-consuls shall notify his death in some one of the gazettes published within their consulate, and that they shall retain the said effects in their hands four months to answer all demands which shall be presented ; and they shall be bound after this delay to deliver to the persons succeeding thereto, what shall be more than sufficient for the demands which shall have been formed.

ARTICLE VI.

Consuls to re-
ceive declarations, & c. from captains, of losses at sea.

The consuls and vice-consuls respectively shall receive the declarations, protests and reports of all captains and masters of their respective nation on account of average losses sustained at sea : and these captains and masters shall lodge in the chancery of the said consuls and viceconsuls, the acts which they may have made in other ports on account of the accidents which may have happened to them on their voyage.

If a subject of the Most Christian King and a citizen of the United States, or a foreigner, are interested in the said cargo, the average shall

be settled by the tribunals of the country, and not by the consuls or vice-consuls ; but when only the subjects or citizens of their own nation shall be interested, the respective consuls or vice-consuls shall appoint skilful persons to settle the damages and average.

ARTICLE VII.

Power of con- In cases where, by tempest or other accident, French ships or vessels

suls in cases of shall be stranded on the coasts of the United States, and ships or ves-

shipwreck.

sels of the United States shall be stranded on the coasts of the domin-

ions of the Most Christian King, the consul or vice-consul nearest to the place of shipwreck shall do whatever he may judge proper, as well for the purpose of saving the said ship or vessel, its cargo and appurtenances, as for the storing and the security of the effects and merchandize saved. He may take an inventory of them, without the intermeddling of any officers of the military, of the customs, of justice, or of the police of the country, otherwise than to give to the consuls, viceconsuls, captain and crew of the vessel shipwrecked or stranded, all the succour and favour which they shall ask of them , either for the expedition and security of the saving and of the effects saved, or to prevent all disturbance. And in order to prevent all kind of dispute and discussion in the said cases of shipwreck, it is agreed , that when there shall be no consul or vice-consul to attend to the saving of the wreck, or that the residence of the said consul or vice-consul (he not being at

the place of the wreck ) shall be more distant from the said place than that of the competent judge of the country, the latter shall immediately proceed therein , with all the dispatch, certainty and precautions pre-

scribed by the respective laws ; but the said territorial judge shall retire on the arrival of the consul or vice-consul, and shall deliver over to him

the report of his proceedings, the expenses of which the consul or viceconsul shall cause to be reimbursed to him , as well as those of saving the wreck. The merchandize and effects saved shall be deposited in the nearest custom-house, or other place of safety, with the inventory

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788 .

111

mains, de même que dans celles de tout autre individu quelconque, et en poursuivre la vente jusqu'au païement de ce qui leur sera légitimement dû ; lorsque les dettes n'auront été contracteés par jugement, par acte, ou par billet dont la signature sera reconnue, le païement ne pourra en être ordonné qu'en fournissant par le créancier caution suffisante et domicilieé de rendre les sommes induëment percües, principal, intérêts et fraîx ; les quelles cautions cependant demeuereront duëment déchargées après une année, en tems de paix, et deux, en tems de guerre, si la demande en décharge ne peut être formée avant ces délais contre les héritiers qui se présenteront. Et afin de ne pas faire injustement attendre aux hêritiers les effets du défunt, les consuls et vice-consuls feront annoncer sa mort dans quelqu' une des gazettes qui se publient dans l'éntenduë de leur consulat, et qu'ils retiendront les dits effets sous leurs mains pendant quatre mois pour répondre à toutes les demandes qui se présenteront : et ils seront tenus, après ce délai, de délivrer aux héritiers, l'excédent du montant des demandes qui auront été formées.
ARTICLE VI.
Les consuls et vice-consuls respectifs recevront les déclarations, protestations et rapports de tous capitaines et patrons de leur nation respective, pour raison d'avaries essuyées à la mer, et ces capitaines et patrons remettront dans la chancellerie des dits consuls et vice-consuls les actes qu'ils auront faits dans d'autres ports pour les accidens qui leur seront arrivés pendant leur voyage. Si un sujet du Roi très Chrétien et un habitant des Etats Unis, ou un etranger, sont intéressés dans la dite cargaison, l'avarie sera règlée par les tribunaux du païs, et non par les consuls et vice-consuls ; mais lorsqu'il n'y aura d'intéressés que les sujets ou citoyens de leur propre nation, les consuls ou les viceconsuls respectifs nommeront des experts pour régler les dommages et avaries.
ARTICLE VII.
Dans le cas où, par tempête, ou autres accidents, des vaisseaux ou batiments Français échoueront sur les côtes des Etats Unis, et des vaisseaux et batiments des Etats Unis échoüeront sur les côtes des Etats de
sa Majesté très Chrétienne, le consul ou le vice-consul, le plus proche du lieu du naufrage, pourra faire tout ce qu'il jugera convenable, tant pour sauver le dit vaisseau ou batiment, son chargement et apartenances, que pour le magazinage et la sûreté des effets sauvés et marchandises. Il pourra en faire l'inventaire, sans qu'aucuns officiers militaires, des douanes, de justice ou de police du païs, puissent s'y immiscer autrement que pour faciliter aux consuls et vice-consuls, capitaine et equipage du vaisseau naufragé, ou échoué, tous les secours et faveurs qu'ils leur demanderont, soit pour la célérité, et la sûreté du sauvetage et des effets sauvés, soit pour éviter tous désordres. Pour prévenir même toute espèce de conflit et de discutsion dans les dits cas de naufrage, il a été convenu que lorsqu'il ne se trouvera pas de consul ou vice-consul pour faire travailler au sauvetage, ou que la résidence du dit consul ou vice-consul, qui ne se trouvera pas sur le lieu du naufrage, sera plus éloignée du dit lieu que celle du juge territorial compétent, ce dernier sera procéder sur le champ avec toute la célérité, la sûreté et les précautions prescrites par les loix respectives ; sauf au dit juge territorial à se retirer, le consul ou vice-consul survenant, et à lui remettre l'expédition des procédures par lui faites, dont le consul ou vice-consul lui fera rembourser les frâix, ainsi que ceux du sauvetage. Les marchandises et effets sauvés devront être déposés à la douane ou autre lieu de sûreté le plus prochain avec l'inventaire qui en aura été dressé par le consul ou vice-consul, ou en leur absence par le juge qui en aura connu,

112

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

thereof, which shall have been made by the consul or vice-consul, or by the judge who shall have proceeded in their absence, that the said effects and merchandize may be afterwards delivered , ( after levying therefrom the costs) and without form of process, to the owners, who being furnished with an order for their delivery from the nearest consul or vice-consul, shall reclaim them by themselves, or by their order, either for the purpose of re-exporting such merchandize, in which case they shall pay no kind of duty of exportation, or for that of selling them in the country, if they be not prohibited there, and in this last case, the said merchandize, if they be damaged, shall be allowed an abatement of entrance duties, proportioned to the damage they have sustained, which shall be ascertained by the affidavits taken at the time the vessel was wrecked or struck.
ARTICLE VIII.

Power of consuls respecting voewsnsenlastoifont.heir

The consuls or vice-consuls shall exercise police over all the vessels of their respective nations, and shall have on board the said vessels all power and jurisdiction in civil matters, in all the disputes which may there arise ; they shall have an entire inspection over the said vessels, their crew, and the changes and substitutions there to be made ; for which purpose they may go on board the said vessels whenever they may judge it necessary. Well understood that the functions hereby

allowed shall be confined to the interior of the vessels, and that they shall not take place in any case which shall have any interference with the police of the ports where the said vessels shall be.

ARTICLE IX.

Power of con-
suls in regard to deserters, and mode of pro-
ceeding.

The consuls and vice-consuls may cause to be arrested the captains, officers, mariners, sailors, and all other persons, being part of the crews of the vessels of their respective nations, who shall have deserted from the said vessels, in order to send them back and transport them out of the country : For which purpose, the said consuls and vice-consuls shall address themselves to the courts, judges and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessel or ship's roll, that those men were part of the said crews ; and on this demand so proved (saving however where the contrary is proved) the delivery shall not be refused ; and there shall be given all aid and assistance to the said consuls and vice-consuls for the search, seizure and arrest of the said deserters, who shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the country, at their request and expense until they shall have found an opportunity of sending them back ; but if they be not sent back within three months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

ARTICLE X.

Citizens ame- In cases where the respective subjects or citizens shall have com-

nable for crimes mitted any crime, or breach of the peace, they shall be amenable to the

to the judges of the country.

judges of the country.

ARTICLE XI.

How to proceed when offenders withdraw on board
their vessels.

When the said offenders shall be a part of the crew of a vessel of their nation , and shall have withdrawn themselves on board the said vessel , they may be there seized and arrested by order of the judges of the country : These shall give notice thereof to the consul or vice-consul , who may repair on board if he thinks proper : But this notification shall not in any case delay execution of the order in question. The persons arrested shall not afterwards be set at liberty until the consul or vice-

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

113

pour les dits effets et marchandises être ensuite délivrés après le prélevement des fraix, et sans forme de procès, aux propriétaires, qui, munis de la main-levée du consul ou vice-consul le plus proche, les réclameront par eux-mêmes, ou par leurs mandataires, soit pour réexporter les marchandises, et dans ce cas elles ne païeront aucune espèce de droits de sortie, soit pour les vendre dans le païs, si elles n'y sont pas prohibées ; et dans ce dernier cas, les dites marchandises se trouvant avariées, on leur accordera une modération sur les droits d'entrée proportionné au dommage souffert, lequel sera constaté par le procès verbal dressé lors du naufrage ou de l'échoüement.

ARTICLE VIII.

Les consuls ou vice-consuls éxerceront la police sur tous les batimens de leurs nations respectives, et auront à bord des dits batimens tout pouvoir et jurisdiction en matière civile dans toutes les discustions qui pourront y survenir ; ils auront une entière inspection sur les dits batiments, leurs équipages et les changements et remplacements à y faire ; pour quel effet ils pourront se transporter à bord des dits batiments toutes les fois qu'ils le jugeront nécessaire ; bien entendu que les fonctions ci-dessus énoncées seront concentrées dans l'intérieur des batiments, et qu'elles ne pourront avoir lieu dans aucun cas qui aura quelque raport avec la police des ports où les dits batiments se trouveront.
ARTICLE IX.

Les consuls et vice-consuls pourront faire arrêter les capitaines, officiers, mariniers, matelots et toutes autres personnes faisant partie des equipages des batiments de leurs nations respectives, qui auroient déserté des dits batimens, pour les renvoyer et faire transporter hors du païs. Auquel effet les dits consuls et vice-consuls s'addresseront aux tribunaux, juges, et officiers compétents et leur feront, par écrit, la demande des dits déserteurs, en justifiant par l'exhibition des régistres du batiment ou rôle d'equipage, que ces hommes faisoient partie des susdits équipages . Et sur cette demande, ainsi justifiée, sauf toutefois la preuve contraire, l'extradition ne pourra être refusée ; et il sera donné toute aide et assistance aux dits consuls et vice-consuls pour la recherche, saisie et arrestation des susdits déserteurs, lesquels seront même détenus et gardés dans les prisons du païs, à leur réquisition , et à leurs fraîs jusqu'à ce qu'ils aïent trouvé occasion de les renvoyer. Mais s'ils n'étoient renvoyés dans le délai de trois mois à compter du jour de leur arrêt, ils seront élargis, et ne pourront plus être arrêtés pour la même cause.
ARTICLE X.

Dans le cas où les sujets ou citoyens respectifs auront commis quelque crime ou infraction de la tranquillité publique, ils seront justiciables des juges du païs.

ARTICLE XI.

Lorsque les dits coupables feront partie de l'equipage de l'un des batiments de leur nation, et se seront retirés à bord des dits navires, ils

pourront y être saisis et arrêtés par l'ordre des juges territoriaux : ceuxci en préviendront le consul ou vice-consul, lequel pourra se rendre à

bord s'il le juge à-propos : mais cette prévenance ne pourra en aucun cas retarder l'éxécution de l'ordre dont il est question. Les personnes

arrêtées ne pourront ensuite être mises en liberté, qu' après que le con-

VOL. VIII. 15

K2

114

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1788.

consul shall have been notified thereof ; and they shall be delivered to him, if he requires it, to be put again on board of the vessel on which they were arrested, or of others of their nation, and to be sent out of the country.
ARTICLE XII.

Disputes between citizens in aforeign country to be
Bettled by consuls.

All differences and suits between the subjects of the Most Christian King, in the United States, or between the citizens of the United States, within the dominions of the Most Christian King, and particularly all
disputes relative to the wages and terms of engagement of the crews of the respective vessels, and all differences of whatever nature they be, which may arise between the privates of the said crews, or between any of them and their captains, or between the captains of different vessels of their nation, shall be determined by the respective consuls and viceconsuls, either by a reference to arbitrators, or by a summary judgment, and without costs. No officer of the country, civil or military, shall interfere therein, or take any part whatever in the matter : and the appeals from the said consular sentences shall be carried before the tribunals of France or of the United States, to whom it may appertain to take cognizance thereof.

ARTICLE XIII.

Tribunals to
decide commer cial affairs.

The general utility of commerce having caused to be established within the dominions of the Most Christian King, particular tribunals
and forms for expediting the decision of commercial affairs, the merchants of the United States shall enjoy the benefit of these establishments ; and the Congress of the United States will provide in the manner the most conformable to its laws, for the establishment of equivalent advantages in favour of the French merchants, for the prompt dispatch and decision of affairs of the same nature.

ARTICLE XIV.

Citizens exempted from personal service in place ofsettlement.

The subjects of the Most Christian King, and the citizens of the United States, who shall prove by legal evidence, that they are of the said nations respectively, shall in consequence enjoy an exemption from all personal service in the place of their settlement.

ARTICLE XV.

If either party
grant greater consular privileges to another nation theyshall be common to
both.

If any other nation acquires by virtue of any convention whatever, a treatment more favourable with respect to the consular pre-eminences, powers, authority and privileges, the consuls and vice-consuls of the
Most Christian King, or of the United States, reciprocally shall participate therein, agreeable to the terms stipulated by the second , third and fourth articles of the treaty of amity and commerce, concluded between the most Christian King and the United States.

ARTICLE XVI.

Duration of this convention.

The present convention shall be in full force during the term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of the exchange of ratifications, which shall be given in proper form, and exchanged on both sides within the space of one year, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, we, Ministers Plenipotentiary, have signed the present convention, and have thereto set the seal of our arms.

Done at Versailles, the 14th of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight.

L. C. DE MONTMORIN, ( L. S. ) THOMAS JEFFERSON, (L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE . 1788.

115

sul ou vice-consul en aura été prévenu , et elles lui seront remises s'il le requiert, pour être reconduites sur les batiments où elles auront été arrêtés, ou autres de leur nation , et être renvoyeés hors du pais.

ARTICLE XII.
Tous différends et procès entre les sujets du Roi très Chrétien dans les Etats Unis, ou entre les citoyens des Etats Unis dans les Etats du Roi très Chrétien, et notamment toutes les discustions relatives aux salaires et conditions des engagements des equipages des batiments respectifs , et tous différends de quelque nature qu'ils soient, qui pourroient s'élever entre les hommes des dits equipages, ou entre quelques uns d'eux et leurs capitaines, ou entre les capitaines de divers batiments nationaux, seront terminés par les consuls et vice- consuls respectifs , soit par un renvoi par devant des arbitres, soit par un jugement sommaire, et sans frais. Aucun officier territorial, civil ou militaire ne pourra y intervenir, ou prendre une part quelconque à l'affaire, et les apels des dits jugements consulaires seront portés devant les tribunaux de France ou des Etats Unis qui doivent en connaître.

ARTICLE XIII.
L'utilité générale du commerce aïant fait établir dans les etats du Roi très Chrétien, des tribunaux et des formes particulières pour accélérer la décision des affaires de commerce, les négocians des Etats Unis jouiront du bénéfice de ces etablissements, et le Congrès des Etats Unis pourvoira de la manière la plus conforme à ses lois, à l'établissement des avantages équivalents en faveur des négociants Français pour la prompte expédition et décision des affaires de la même nature.

ARTICLE XIV.
Les sujets du Roi très Chrétien et les citoyens des Etats Unis, qui justifieront authentiquement être du corps de la nation respective, jouiront en conséquence de l'exemption de tout service personnel dans le lieu de leur établissement.
ARTICLE XV.
Si quelqu' autre nation acquiert, en vertu d'une convention quelconque, un traitement plus favorable relativement aux pré-éminences, pouvoirs, autorité et priviléges consulaires, les consuls et vice-consuls du Roi très Chrétien ou des Etats Unis, réciproquement, y participeront, aux termes stipulés par les articles deux, trois et quatre, du traité d'amitié et de commerce conclu entre le Roi très Chrétien et les Etats Unis.
ARTICLE XVI.
La présente convention aura son plein effet pendant l'espace de douze ans à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications, lesquelles seront données en bonne forme et échangées de part et d'autre dans l'espace d'un an, ou plutôt si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, nous, Ministres Plénipotentiaires, avons signé la présente convention, et y avons fait apposer le cachet de nos armes.
Fait à Versailles, le 14 Novembre, mil sept cent quatre-vingt-huit.
L. C. DE MONTMORIN , (L. S. ) THOMAS JEFFERSON, (L. S.)

TREATY OF AMITY, COMMERCE AND NAVIGATION,
Between His Britannic Majesty and the United States of
America, by their President, with the Advice and Con-
sent of their Senate. (a)
Nov. 19, 1794. His Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, being
desirous, by a treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, to terminate their differences in such a manner, as, without reference to the merits of their respective complaints and pretensions, may be the best calculated to produce mutual satisfaction and good understanding ; and also to regulate the commerce and navigation between their respective countries, territories and people, in such a manner as to render the same reciprocally beneficial and satisfactory ; they have, respectively, named their plenipotentiaries, and given them full powers to treat of, and conclude the said treaty ; that is to say : His Britannic Majesty has named for his Plenipotentiary, the Right Honorable William Wyndham Baron Grenville of Wotton, one of his Majesty's Privy Council, and his Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs ; and the President of the said United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, hath appointed for their plenipotentiary, the honorable
(a) For a list of the treaties and conventions between the United States and Great Britain, see ante, page 54.
Additional note of the decisions of the courts of the United States, in cases arising under the Definitive Treaty of Peace with Great Britain of September 4, 1783.
The treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain, prevents the operation of the act of limitations of Virginia, upon British debts contracted before that treaty. Hopkirk v. Bell, 3 Cranch , 454; 1 Cond. Rep. 595.
The treaty of peace of 1783 , between the United States and Great Britain, was a mere recognition of pre-existing rights as to territory, and no territory was thereby acquired by way of cession from Great Britain. Harcourt et al. v. Gaillard, 12 Wheat. 523 ; 6 Cond . Rep. 628.
The act of the legislature of Virginia, of 1799, entitled "An act concerning escheats and forfeitures from British subjects," and under which a debtor to a subject of Great Britain had, in conformity to the provisions of that law, during the war, paid into the loan office of the state a portion of the debt due by him, did not operate to protect the debtor from a suit for such debt, after the treaty of peace in 1783. The statute of Virginia, if it was valid, and the legislature could pass such a law, was annulled by the fourth article of the treaty ; and under this article, suits for the recovery of debts so due, might be maintained, the provisions of the Virginia law to the contrary notwithstanding. Ware, Adm'r of Jones, Plaintiff in Error v. Hylton et al. 3 Dall . 199 ; 1 Cond . Rep. 99.
Debts due in the United States to British subjects, before the war of the revolution , though sequestered or paid into the state treasuries, revived by the treaty of peace of 1783, and the creditors are entitled to recover them from the original debtors. State of Georgia v. Brailsford, 3 Dall. 1 ; 1 Cond. Rep. 8.
G. C., born in the colony of New York, went to England in 1738, where he resided until his decease ; and being seised of lands in New York , he , on the 30th of November, 1776, in England, devised the same to the defendant and E. C. , as tenants in common , and died so seised on the 10th of December, 1776. The defendant and E. C. having entered, and becoming possessed, E. C. , on the 3d December, 1791 , bargained and sold to the defendant all his interest. The defendant and E. C. were both born in England, long before the revolution . On the 22d March, 1791 , the legislature of New York passed' an act to enable the defendant to purchase lands, and to hold all other lands which be might then be enti tled to within the state, by purchase or descent, in fee simple ; and to sell and dispose of the same, in the same manner as any natural born citizen might do. The treaty between the United States and Great Britain of 1794 , contains the following provision : " Article 9th. It is agreed that British subjects who now hold lands in the territories of the United States, and American citizens who now hold lands in the dominions of his majesty, shall continue to hold them according to the nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein ; and may grant, sell, or devise the same to whom they please, in like manner as if they were natives ; and that neither they nor their heirs or assigns shall, so far as respects the said lands and the legal remedies incident thereto, be considered as aliens." The defendant, at the time of the action brought, still continued to be a British subject . Held, that he was entitled to hold the lands so devised to him by G. C. , and transferred to him by E. C. New York v. Clarke, 3 Wheat. 1 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 188.
(116)

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794 .

117

John Jay, Chief Justice of the said United States, and their envoy extraordinary to his Majesty : who have agreed on and concluded the following articles.
ARTICLE I.

There shall be a firm , inviolable and universal peace, and a true and Peace established.
sincere friendship between his Britannic Majesty, his heirs and succes-
sors, and the United States of America ; and between their respective
countries, territories, cities, towns and people of every degree, without
exception of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

His Majesty will withdraw all his troops and garrisons from all posts His Majesty and places within the boundary lines assigned by the treaty of peace to ttroowoipsthfdrroamw the United States. This evacuation shall take place on or before the U. States. first day of June, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six, and all

the proper measures shall in the interval be taken by concert between

the government of the United States, and his Majesty's Governor-General in America, for settling the previous arrangements which may be necessary respecting the delivery of the said posts : The United States

in the mean time at their discretion , extending their settlements to any part within the said boundary line, except within the precincts or jurisdiction of any of the said posts. All settlers and traders, within the precincts or jurisdiction of the said posts, shall continue to enjoy, unmolested, all their property of every kind , and shall be protected therein. They shall be at full liberty to remain there, or to remove with all or any part of their effects ; and it shall also be free to them to sell their

Privileges allaonwdetdratdoesrestt. lers

lands, houses, or effects, or to retain the property thereof, at their discretion ; such of them as shall continue to reside within the said boundary lines, shall not be compelled to become citizens of the United

States, or to take any oath of allegiance to the government thereof ; but they shall be at full liberty so to do if they think proper, and they shall make and declare their election within one year after the evacua-

tion aforesaid. And all persons who shall continue there after the expiration of the said year, without having declared their intention of remaining subjects of his Britannic Majesty, shall be considered as

having elected to become citizens of the United States.

ARTICLE III.

It is agreed that it shall at all times be free to his Majesty's subjects, Commercial and to the citizens of the United States, and also to the Indians dwelling intercourse re-

on either side of the said boundary line, freely to pass and repass by gtuwleaetnedthbee-two land or inland navigation, into the respective territories and countries parties on the

of the two parties, on the continent of America (the country within the

continent of America.

limits of the Hudson's bay Company only excepted) and to navigate all

the lakes, rivers and waters thereof, and freely to carry on trade and

commerce with each other. But it is understood , that this article does not extend to the admission of vessels of the United States into the

sea-ports, harbours, bays, or creeks of his Majesty's said territories ; nor into such parts of the rivers in his Majesty's said territories as are between the mouth thereof, and the highest port of entry from the sea,

except in small vessels trading bona fide between Montreal and Quebec, under such regulations as shall be established to prevent the possibility

of any frauds in this respect. Nor to the admission of British vessels from the sea into the rivers of the United States, beyond the highest ports of entry for foreign vessels from the sea. The river Missisippi

shall, however, according to the treaty of peace, be entirely open to

both parties ; and it is further agreed, that all the ports and places on its eastern side, to whichscever of the parties belonging, may freely be

118

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

resorted to and used by both parties, in as ample a manner as any of the Atlantic ports or places of the United States, or any of the ports or places of his Majesty in Great- Britain.
All goods and merchandize whose importation into his Majesty's said territories in America, shall not be entirely prohibited, may freely, for the purposes of commerce, be carried into the same in the manner aforesaid, by the citizens of the United States, and such goods and merchandize shall be subject to no higher or other duties, than would be payable by his Majesty's subjects on the importation of the same from Europe into the said territories. And in like manner, all goods and merchandize whose importation into the United States shall not be wholly prohibited, may freely, for the purposes of commerce, be carried into the same, in the manner aforesaid , by his Majesty's subjects, and such goods and merchandize shall be subject to no higher or other duties, than would be payable by the citizens of the United States on the importation of the same in American vessels into the Atlantic ports of the said states. And all goods not prohibited to be exported from the said territories respectively, may in like manner be carried out of the same by the two parties respectively, paying duty as aforesaid.
No duty of entry shall ever be levied by either party on peltries brought by land, or inland navigation into the said territories respectively, nor shall the Indians passing or repassing with their own proper goods and effects of whatever nature, pay for the same any impost or duty whatever. But goods in bales, or other large packages, unusual among Indians, shall not be considered as goods belonging bona fide to Indians.
No higher or other tolls or rates of ferriage than what are or shall be payable by natives, shall be demanded on either side ; and no duties. shall be payable on any goods which shall merely be carried over any of the portages or carrying-places on either side, for the purpose of being immediately re-imbarked and carried to some other place or places. But as by this stipulation it is only meant to secure to each party a free passage across the portages on both sides : it is agreed , that this exemption from duty shall extend only to such goods as are carried in the usual and direct road across the portage, and are not attempted to be in any manner sold or exchanged during their passage across the same, and proper regulations may be established to prevent the possibility of any frauds in this respect.
As this article is intended to render in a great degree the local advantages of each party common to both, and thereby to promote a disposition favorable to friendship and good neighbourhood, it is agreed , that the respective governments will mutually promote this amicable intercourse, by causing speedy and impartial justice to be done, and necessary protection to be extended to all who may be concerned therein.
ARTICLE IV.

Survey of the
Mississippi to be made .

Whereas it is uncertain whether the river Missisippi extends so far to the northward , as to be intersected by a line to be drawn due west from the Lake of the Woods, in the manner mentioned in the treaty of peace between his Majesty and the United States : it is agreed , that measures shall be taken in concert between his Majesty's government in America and the government of the United States, for making a joint survey of the said river from one degree of latitude below the falls of
St. Anthony, to the principal source or sources of the said river, and also of the parts adjacent thereto ; and that if on the result of such survey, it should appear that the said river, would not be intersected by such a line as is above mentioned , the two parties will thereupon proceed by amicable negociation , to regulate the boundary line in that

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

119

quarter, as well as all other points to be adjusted between the said parties, according to justice and mutual convenience, and in conformity to the intent of the said treaty.

ARTICLE V.

Whereas doubts have arisen what river was truly intended under the

name of the river St. Croix, mentioned in the said treaty of peace, and

forming a part of the boundary therein described ; that question shall

be referred to the final decision of commissioners to be appointed in the following manner, viz.

One commissioner shall be named by his Majesty, and one by the Commissioners
President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of ttoo bdeeciadpepowihnatted the Senate thereof, and the said two commissioners shall agree on the river is the river

choice of a third ; or if they cannot so agree, they shall each propose St. Croix in-

one person, and of the two names so proposed , one

shall be drawn by

tended by the treaty ofpeace

lot in the presence of the two original commissioners. And the three to be the boun-

commissioners so appointed, shall be sworn , impartially to examine and dary of the U. S.
decide the said question , according to such evidence as shall respec-

tively be laid before them on the part of the British government and of the United States. The said commissioners shall meet at Halifax, and

shall have power to adjourn to such other place or places as they shall

think fit. They shall have power to appoint a secretary, and to employ

such surveyors or other persons as they shall judge necessary. The said commissioners shall , by a declaration , under their hands and seals,

decide what river is the river St. Croix, intended by the treaty. The

said declaration shall contain a description of the said river, and shall

particularize the latitude and longitude of its mouth and of its source.

Duplicates of this declaration and of the statements of their accounts,

and of the journal of their proceedings , shall be delivered by them to

the agent of his Majesty, and to the agent of the United States, who may be respectively appointed and authorized to manage the business

on behalf of the respective governments. And both parties agree to consider such decision as final and conclusive, so as that the same shall

never thereafter be called into question , or made the subject of dispute or difference between them.

ARTICLE VI.

Whereas it is alledged by divers British merchants and others his Majesty's subjects, that debts, to a considerable amount, which were bona fide contracted before the peace , still remain owing to them by citizens or inhabitants of the United States, and that by the operation
ofvarious lawful impediments since the peace, not only the full recovery of the said debts has been delayed , but also the value and security
thereof have been, in several instances, impaired and lessened, so that by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, the British creditors cannot now obtain, and actually have and receive full and adequate compensation for the losses and damages which they have thereby sustained. It is agreed , that in all such cases, where full compensation for such losses and damages cannot, for whatever reason , be actually obtained, had and received by the said creditors in the ordinary course of justice, the United States will make full and complete compensation for the same to the said creditors : But it is distinctly understood , that this provision is to extend to such losses only as have been occasioned by the lawful impediments aforesaid, and is not to extend to losses occasioned by such insolvency of the debtors, or other causes as would equally have operated to produce such loss, if the said impediments had not existed ; nor to such losses or damages as have been occasioned by the manifest delay or negligence, or wilful omission of the claimant.
For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of any such losses and

U. S. to make
compensation ttoorBsr, iftoirshlocsrseedsi occasioned by
legal impedi cmoelnltecstitoontohfe debts contract ed before the peace.

120

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

Commission. ers to be appointed to ascertain the same.

damages, five commissioners shall be appointed, and authorized to meet and act in manner following, viz. Two of them shall be appointed by his Majesty, two of them by the President of the United States by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and the fifth by the unanimous voice of the other four ; and if they should not agree in such

choice, then the commissioners named by the two parties shall respec-

tively propose one person, and of the two names so proposed, one shall

be drawn by lot, in the presence of the four original commissioners. When the five commissioners thus appointed shall first meet, they shall,

before they proceed to act, respectively take the following oath, or

affirmation, in the presence of each other ; which oath, or affirmation, being so taken and duly attested , shall be entered on the record of their

proceedings, viz . I, A. B. one of the commissioners appointed in pursuance of the sixth article of the treaty of amity, commerce, and naviga-

tion, between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America,

do solemnly swear ( or affirm) that I will honestly, diligently, impartially,

and carefully examine, and to the best of my judgment, according to justice and equity, decide all such complaints, as under the said article

shall be preferred to the said commissioners : and that I will forbear to

act as a commissioner, in any case in which I may be personally interested .

Their power and duty.

Three of the said commissioners shall constitute a board, and shall have power to do any act appertaining to the said commission, provided that one of the commissioners named on each side, and the fifth com-

missioner shall be present, and all decisions shall be made by the majority of the voices of the commissioners then present. Eighteen months from the day on which the said commissioners shall form a

board, and be ready to proceed to business, are assigned for receiving complaints and applications ; but they are nevertheless authorized, in

any particular cases in which it shall appear to them to be reasonable

and just, to extend the said term of eighteen months, for any term not exceeding six months, after the expiration thereof. The said commissioners shall first meet at Philadelphia, but they shall have power to

U. S. to pay
the sum awarded.

adjourn from place to place as they shall see cause. The said commissioners in examining the complaints and applica-
tions so preferred to them, are empowered and required, in pursuance of the true intent and meaning of this article, to take into their consideration all claims, whether of principal or interest, or balances of principal and interest, and to determine the same respectively, according to the merits of the several cases, due regard being had to all the circumstances thereof, and as equity and justice shall appear to them to require. And the said commissioners shall have power to examine all such persons as shall come before them, on oath or affirmation, touching the premises ; and also to receive in evidence, according as they may think most consistent with equity and justice, all written depositions, or books, or papers, or copies, or extracts thereof; every such deposition, book, or paper, or copy, or extract, being duly authenticated, either according to the legal forms now respectively existing in the two countries, or in such other manner as the said commissioners shall see cause to require or allow.
The award of the said commissioners, or of any three of them as aforesaid , shall in all cases be final and conclusive, both as to the justice
of the claim , and to the amount of the sum to be paid to the creditor or claimant And the United States undertake to cause the sum so

awarded to be paid in specie to such creditor or claimant without de-

duction ; and at such time or times, and at such place or places, as shall be awarded by the said commissioners ; and on condition of such

releases or assignments to be given by the creditor or claimant, as by

the said commissioners may be directed : Provided always, that no such

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

121

payment shall be fixed by the said commissioners to take place sooner than twelve months from the day of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty.
ARTICLE VII.

Whereas complaints have been made by divers merchants and others, British govern-

citizens of the United States, that during the course of the war in ment to make which his Majesty is now engaged, they have sustained considerable ctoomApmeenrsiactiaonn losses and damage, by reason of irregular or illegal captures or condem- citizens for ille

nations of their vessels and other property, under colour of authority or

gthaelicravpetsusreelss

of by

commissions from his Majesty, and that from various circumstances be- British subjects.

longing to the said cases, adequate compensation for the losses and dam-

ages so sustained cannot now be actually obtained, had and received by

the ordinary course of judicial proceedings ; it is agreed , that in all such

cases, where adequate compensation cannot, for whatever reason, be now

actually obtained, had and received by the said merchants and others,

in the ordinary course ofjustice, full and complete compensation for the

same will be made by the British government to the said complainants.

But it is distinctly understood , that this provision is not to extend to

such losses or damages as have been occasioned by the manifest delay or negligence, or wilful omission of the claimant.
That for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of any such losses

Commission.

and damages, five commissioners shall be appointed and authorized to peorsinttoedbetoapact in London, exactly in the manner directed with respect to those ascertain the
mentioned in the preceding article, and after having taken the same oath same.

or affirmation ( mutatis mutandis) the same term of eighteen months is

also assigned for the reception of claims, and they are in like manner

authorized to extend the same in particular cases. They shall receive

testimony, books, papers and evidence in the same latitude, and exer-

cise the like discretion and powers respecting that subject ; and shall

decide the claims in question according to the merits of the several

cases, and to justice, equity, and the laws of nations. The award of

the said commissioners, or any such three of them as aforesaid , shall in

all cases be final and conclusive, both as to the justice of the claim, and

the amount of the sum to be paid to the claimant ; and his Britannic

Majesty undertakes to cause the same to be paid to such claimant in

specie, without any deduction, at such place or places , and at such time

or times, as shall be awarded by the said commissioners , and on condi-

tion of such releases or assignments to be given by the claimant, as by

the said commissioners may be directed .

And whereas certain merchants and others his Majesty's subjects ,

complain, that in the course of the war they have sustained loss and

damage, by reason of the capture of their vessels and merchandize,

taken within the limits and jurisdiction of the states, and brought into

the ports of the same, or taken by vessels originally armed in ports of the said states.

It is agreed that in all such cases where restitution shall not have U. S. to make

been made agreeably to the tenor of the letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Hammond, dated at Philadelphia, Sept. 5 , 1793 , a copy of which
is annexed to this treaty ; the complaints of the parties shall be and hereby are referred to the commissioners to be appointed by virtue of this article, who are hereby authorized and required to proceed in the like manner relative to these as to the other cases committed to them; and the United States undertake to pay to the complainants or claimants in specie, without deduction , the amount of such sums as shall be awarded to them respectively by the said commissioners, and at the times and places which in such awards shall be specified ; and on condition of such releases or assignments to be given by the claimants as

compensation tjoecBtrsitfiosrhcsaupb-tures in their jurisdiction or bedy ivnestsheelisr armports.
Post, 132.

in the said awards may be directed : And it is further agreed, that not

VOL. VIII. 16

I.

122

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794.

only the now-existing cases of both descriptions, but also all such as
shall exist at the time of exchanging the ratifications of this treaty, shall be considered as being within the provisions, intent, and meaning of this article.

ARTICLE VIII .

How expenses shall be paid,
and vacancy of commissioners supplied.

It is further agreed , that the commissioners mentioned in this and in
the two preceding articles shall be respectively paid in such manner as shall be agreed between the two parties, such agreement being to be settled at the time of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty. And all other expences attending the said commissions shall be defrayed jointly by the two parties, the same being previously ascertained and allowed by the majority of the commissioners. And in the case of death, sickness or necessary absence, the place of every such commissioner respectively shall be supplied in the same manner as such commissioner was first appointed, and the new commissioners shall take the same oath or affirmation and do the same duties.

ARTICLE IX.

Alienage not
to affect certain titles to lands.

It is agreed that British subjects who now hold lands in the territories of the United States, and American citizens who now hold lands in the dominions of his Majesty , shall continue to hold them according to the nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein ; and may grant, sell, or devise the same to whom they please, in like manner as if they were natives ; and that neither they nor their heirs or assigns shall, so far as may respect the said lands and the legal remedies incident thereto, be regarded as aliens.

ARTICLE X.

Sequestration of debts re-
strained.

Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation to individuals
of the other, nor shares, nor monies which they may have in the public funds, or in the public or private banks, shall ever in any event of war or national differences be sequestered or confiscated, it being unjust and impolitic that debts and engagements contracted and made by individuals, having confidence in each other and in their respective governments, should ever be destroyed or impaired by national authority on account of national differences and discontents.

ARTICLE XI.

It is agreed between his Majesty and the United States of America, that there shall be a reciprocal and entirely perfect liberty of navigation and commerce between their respective people, in the manner, under the limitations and on the conditions specified in the following articles :
ARTICLE XII.

West-India trade regulated.
Suspended, Bee page 130.

His Majesty consents that it shall and may be lawful during the time herein-after limited , for the citizens of the United States to carry to any of his Majesty's islands and ports in the West-Indies from the United States, in their own vessels, not being above the burthen of seventy tons, any goods or merchandizes, being of the growth, manufacture or produce of the said states, which it is or may be lawful to carry to the said islands or ports from the said states in British vessels ; and that the said American vessels shall be subject there to no other or higher tonnage-duties or charges, than shall be payable by British vessels in the ports of the United States ; and that the cargoes of the said American vessels shall be subject there to no other or higher duties or charges, than shall be payable on the like articles if imported there from the said states in British vessels.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

123

And his Majesty also consents , that it shall be lawful for the said American citizens to purchase, load, and carry away in their said vessels to the United States from the said islands and ports, all such articles, being of the growth, manufacture or produce of the said islands, as may now by law be carried from thence to the said states in British vessels, and subject only to the same duties and charges on exportation, to which British vessels and their cargoes are or shall be subject in similar circumstances.
Provided always, that the said American vessels do carry and land their cargoes in the United States only, it being expressly agreed and declared, that during the continuance of this article, the United States will prohibit and restrain the carrying any molasses, sugar, coffee, cocoa or cotton in American vessels, either from his Majesty's islands, or from the United States to any part of the world except the United States, reasonable sea-stores excepted. Provided also, that it shall and may be lawful, during the same period, for British vessels to import from the said islands into the United States, and to export from the United States to the said islands, all articles whatever, being of the growth, produce or manufacture of the said islands, or of the United States respectively, which now may, by the laws of the said states, be so imported and exported. And that the cargoes of the said British vessels shall be subject to no other or higher duties or charges, than shall be payable on the same articles if so imported or exported in American vessels.
It is agreed that this article and every matter and thing therein contained, shall continue to be in force during the continuance of the war in which his Majesty is now engaged ; and also for two years from and after the day of the signature of the preliminary or other articles of peace, by which the same may be terminated.
And it is further agreed , that at the expiration of the said term, the two contracting parties will endeavour further to regulate their commerce in this respect, according to the situation in which his Majesty may then find himself with respect to the West-Indies, and with a view to such arrangements as may best conduce to the mutual advantage and extension of commerce. And the said parties will then also renew
their discussions, and endeavour to agree, whether in any and what cases, neutral vessels shall protect enemy's property ; and in what cases provisions and other articles, not generally contraband, may become such. But in the mean time, their conduct towards each other in these respects, shall be regulated by the articles herein-after inserted on those subjects.
ARTICLE XIII.
His Majesty consents that the vessels belonging to the citizens of the East-India United States of America, shall be admitted and hospitably received, in trade regulated. all the sea-ports and harbours of the British territories in the EastIndies. And that the citizens of the said United States, may freely carry on a trade between the said territories and the said United States, in all articles of which the importation or exportation respectively, to or from the said territories, shall not be entirely prohibited. Provided only, that it shall not be lawful for them in any time of war between the British government and any other power or state whatever , to export from the said territories, without the special permission of the British government there, any military stores, or naval stores, or rice. The citizens of the United States shall pay for their vessels when admitted into the said ports no other or higher tonnage-duty than shall be payable on British vessels when admitted into the ports of the United States. And they shall pay no other or higher duties or charges, on the importation or exportation of the cargoes of the said vessels, than shall be payable on the same articles when imported or exported in British ves-

124

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794.

sels. But it is expressly agreed, that the vessels of the United States shall not carry any of the articles exported bythem from the said British territories, to any port or place, except to some port or place in America, where the same shall be unladen, and such regulations shall be adopted by both parties, as shall from time to time be found necessary to enforce the due and faithful observance of this stipulation. It is also understood that the permission granted by this article, is not to extend to allow the vessels of the United States to carry on any part of the coasting-trade of the said British territories ; but vessels going with their original cargoes, or part thereof, from one port of discharge to another, are not to be considered as carrying on the coasting-trade. Neither is this article to be construed to allow the citizens of the said states to
settle or reside within the said territories, or to go into the interior parts thereof, without the permission of the British government established there ; and if any transgression should be attempted against the regulations of the British government in this respect, the observance of the same shall and may be enforced against the citizens of America in the same manner as against British subjects or others transgressing the same rule. And the citizens of the United States, whenever they arrive in any port or harbour in the said territories, or if they should be permitted in manner aforesaid, to go to any other place therein, shall always be subject to the laws, government, and jurisdiction of what nature established in such harbour, port or place, according as the same may be. The citizens of the United States may also touch for refreshment at the island of St. Helena , but subject in all respects to such regulations as the British government may from time to time establish there.

ARTICLE XIV.

Liberty of commerce between the Bri-
tish European dominions and the U. States established.

There shall be between all the dominions of his Majesty in Europe and the territories of the United States, a reciprocal and perfect liberty of commerce and navigation . The people and inhabitants of the two countries respectively, shall have liberty freely and securely, and without hindrance and molestation, to come with their ships and cargoes to the lands, countries, cities, ports, places and rivers, within the dominions and territories aforesaid, to enter into the same, to resort there, and to remain and reside there, without any limitation of time. Also to hire and possess houses and ware-houses for the purposes of their commerce, and generally the merchants and traders on each side , shall
enjoy the most complete protection and security for their commerce ; but subject always as to what respects this article to the laws and
statutes of the two countries respectively.

ARTICLE XV.

Regulations respecting duties on ships and merchan-
dize.

It is agreed that no other or higher duties shall be paid by the ships or merchandize of the one party in the ports ofthe other, than such as are paid by the like vessels or merchandize of all other nations. Nor shall any other or higher duty be imposed in one country on the importation of any articles the growth, produce or manufacture of the other, than are or shall be payable on the importation of the like articles being of the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles to or from the territories of the two parties respectively, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.
But the British government reserves to itself the right of imposing on American vessels entering into the British ports in Europe, a tonnage duty equal to that which shall be payable by British vessels in the ports
of America : And also such duty as may be adequate to countervail the

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

125

difference of duty now payable on the importation of European and Asiatic goods, when imported into the United States in British of in American vessels.
The two parties agree to treat for the more exact equalization of the duties on the respective navigation of their subjects and people, in such manner as may be most beneficial to the two countries. The arrangements for this purpose shall be made at the same time, with those mentioned at the conclusion of the twelfth article of this treaty, and are to be considered as a part thereof. In the interval it is agreed , that the United States will not impose any new or additional tonnage duties on British vessels, nor increase the now-subsisting difference between the duties payable on the importation of any articles in British or in American vessels.

ARTICLE XVI.

It shall be free for the two contracting parties, respectively to ap-
point consuls for the protection of trade, to reside in the dominions and territories aforesaid ; and the said consuls shall enjoy those liberties and rights which belong to them by reason of their function. But before any consul shall act as such, he shall be in the usual forms approved and admitted by the party to whom he is sent ; and it is hereby declared to be lawful and proper, that in case of illegal or improper conduct towards the laws or government, a consul may either be punished according to law, if the laws will reach the case, or be dismissed, or even sent back, the offended government assigning to the other their reasons for the same.
Either of the parties may except from the residence of consuls such particular places, as such party shall judge proper to be so excepted.

Consuls may be appointed.

ARTICLE XVII .
It is agreed, that in all cases where vessels shall be captured or de- How to pro-
tained on just suspicion of having on board enemy's property, or of cseelesdawrehecnapvteusrcarrying to the enemy any of the articles which are contraband of war ; ed on suspicion the said vessel shall be brought to the nearest or most convenient port ; of having eneand if any property of an enemy should be found on board such vessel, mory'csonptrroapbearntdy, that part only which belongs to the enemy shall be made prize, and the goods. vessel shall be at liberty to proceed with the remainder without any
impediment. And it is agreed, that all proper measures shall be taken to prevent delay, in deciding the cases of ships or cargoes so brought in
for adjudication ; and in the payment or recovery of any indemnification, adjudged or agreed to be paid to the masters or owners of such ships.

ARTICLE XVIII.

In order to regulate what is in future to be esteemed contraband of war, it is agreed, that under the said denomination shall be comprised
all arms and implements serving for the purposes of war, by land or sea, such as cannon, muskets, mortars, petards, bombs, grenades, carcasses, saucisses, carriages for cannon , musket rests, bandoliers , gunpowder, match, saltpetre, ball , pikes, swords, head-pieces, cuirasses, halberts, lances, javelins, horse-furniture, holsters, belts, and generally all other implements of war ; as also timber for ship-building, tar or rozin, copper in shects, sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally whatever may serve directly to the equipment of vessels, unwrought iron and fir planks only excepted ; and all the above articles are hereby declared to be just objects of confiscation , whenever they are attempted to be carried to an enemy.

What articles sehdalclonbterdaebaenmd-.

And whereas the difficulty of agreeing on the precise cases in which L2

126

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

Stipulation re-
ssipoencstibngecporomviin-g contraband.

alone provisions and other articles not generally contraband may be regarded as such, renders it expedient to provide against the inconveniences and misunderstandings which might thence arise : It is further agreed, that whenever any such articles so becoming contraband, according to the existing laws of nations, shall for that reason be seized , the same shall not be confiscated , but the owners thereof shall be

Regulations respecting ves-
tsoelesnatetrteambpltoicnkgaded port, or found therein.

speedily and completely indemnified ; and the captors, or in their default, the government under whose authority they act, shall pay to the masters or owners of such vessels, the full value of all such articles, with a reasonable mercantile profit thereon , together with the freight,
and also the demurrage incident to such detention . And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or place
belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is either be sieged, blockaded or invested ; it is agreed, that every vessel so circumstanced, may be turned away from such port or place, but she shall not be detained, nor her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated , unless after notice she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she may think proper : Nor shall any vessel or goods of either party, that may have entered into such port or place, before the same was besieged , blockaded, or invested by the other, and be found therein after the reduction or surrender of such place, be liable to confiscation, but shall be restored to the owners or proprietors thereof.
ARTICLE XIX .

Privateering regulated.

And that more abundant care may be taken for the security of the respective subjects and citizens of the contracting parties, and to prevent their suffering injuries by the men of war, or privateers of either party, all commanders of ships of war and privateers, and all others the said subjects and citizens, shall forbear doing any damage to those of the other party, or committing any outrage against them, and if they act to the contrary, they shall be punished, and shall also be bound in their persons and estates to make satisfaction and reparation for all damages, and the interest thereof, of whatever nature the said damages may be.

For this cause, all commanders of privateers, before they receive their commissions, shall hereafter be obliged to give, before a competent

judge, sufficient security by at least two responsible sureties, who have no interest in the said privateer, each of whom, together with the said commander, shall be jointly and severally bound in the sum of fifteen hundred pounds sterling, or if such ships be provided with above one hundred and fifty seamen or soldiers, in the sum of three thousand pounds sterling, to satisfy all damages and injuries, which the said

privateer, or her officers or men, or any of them may do or commit during their cruise , contrary to the tenor of this treaty, or to the laws and instructions for regulating their conduct ; and further, that in all cases of aggressions, the said commissions shall be revoked and annulled.

It is also agreed that whenever a judge of a court of admiralty of

either of the parties, shall pronounce sentence against any vessel, or goods or property belonging to the subjects or citizens of the other

party, a formal and duly authenticated copy of all the proceedings in the cause, and of the said sentence, shall, if required, be delivered to the commander of the said vessel, without the smallest delay, he paying all legal fees and demands for the same.

ARTICLE XX .

It is further agreed that both the said contracting parties, shall not only refuse to receive any pirates into any of their ports, havens , or towns, or permit any of the'r inhabitants to receive, protect, harbor,

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794.

127

conceal or assist them in any manner, but will bring to condign punish- Pirates not to

ment all such inhabitants as shall be guilty of such acts or offences.

be protected ; and goods taken

And all their ships with the goods or merchandizes taken by them bythem to be

and brought into the port of either of the said parties, shall be seized restored.

as far as they can be discovered, and shall be restored to the owners , or

their factors or agents, duly deputed and authorized in writing by them

(proper evidence being first given in the court of admiralty for proving the property) even in case such effects should have passed into other

hands by sale, if it be proved that the buyers knew or had good reason

to believe, or suspect that they had been piratically taken.

ARTICLE XXI.

It is likewise agreed, that the subjects and citizens of the two nations, Subjects or shall not do any acts of hostility or violence against each other, nor citizens of one
party shall not accept commissions or instructions so to act from any foreign prince or accept commis state, enemies to the other party ; nor shall the enemies of one of the sion from a foparties be permitted to invite, or endeavour to enlist in their military rweairgnwisttahtethaet service, any of the subjects or citizens of the other party ; and the laws other. against all such offences and aggressions shall be punctually executed.
And if any subject or citizen of the said parties respectively, shall accept any foreign commission , or letters of marque, for arming any vessel to act as a privateer against the other party, and be taken by the
other party, it is hereby declared to be lawful for the said party, to treat
and punish the said subject or citizen , having such commission or letters of marque, as a pirate.
ARTICLE XXII.
It is expressly stipulated, that neither of the said contracting parties No reprisal till demand of
will order or authorize any acts of reprisal against the other, on com- satisfaction and plaints of injuries or damages, until the said party shall first have pre- refusal. sented to the other a statement thereof, verified by competent proof and
evidence, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall either have been refused or unreasonably delayed.

ARTICLE XXIII.

The ships of war of each of the contracting parties shall, at all times, Ships of war

be hospitably received in the ports of the other, their officers and crews

of each to be received in the

paying due respect to the laws and government of the country. The ports of the

officers shall be treated with that respect which is due to the commis- other.

sions which they bear, and if any insult should be offered to them by

any of the inhabitants, all offenders in this respect shall be punished as disturbers of the peace and amity between the two countries. And his Majesty consents, that in case an American vessel should , by stress of weather, danger from enemies or other misfortune, be reduced to the
necessity of seeking shelter in any of his Majesty's ports, into which such vessel could not in ordinary cases claim to be admitted, she shall, on manifesting that necessity to the satisfaction of the government of

American ves-
ssetlrses, sinofcawseea-of ther, may enter British ports.

the place, be hospitably received and be permitted to refit, and to purchase at the market price, such necessaries as she may stand in need of, conformably to such orders and regulations as the government of

the place, having respect to the circumstances of each case, shall prescribe. She shall not be allowed to break bulk or unload her cargo,

unless the same shall be bona fide necessary to her being refitted. Nor

shall be permitted to sell any part of her cargo, unless so much only as may be necessary to defray her expences, and then not without the

express permission of the government of the place. Nor shall she be

obliged to pay any duties whatever, except only on such articles as she

may be permitted to sell for the purpose aforesaid.

128

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Foreign priva teers not to arm

It shall not be lawful for any foreign privateers (not being subjects

in the ports of or citizens of either of the said parties) who have commissions from

either nation, any other prince or state in enmity with either nation , to arm their ships

nor to sell their in the ports of either of the said parties, nor to sell what they have prizes.
taken, nor in any other manner to exchange the same ; nor shall they

be allowed to purchase more provisions, than shall be necessary for their

going to the nearest port of that prince or state from whom they ob. tained their commissions.

ARTICLE XXV.

Regulations respecting prizes and captures.

It shall be lawful for the ships of war and privateers belonging to the
said parties respectively, to carry whithersoever they please, the ships and goods taken from their enemies, without being obliged to pay any fee to the officers of the admiralty, or to any judges whatever ; nor shall the said prizes when they arrive at, and enter the ports of the said parties, be detained or seized , neither shall the searchers or other officers of those places visit such prizes, ( except for the purpose of preventing

the carrying of any part of the cargo thereof on shore in any manner contrary to the established laws of revenue, navigation or commerce) nor shall such officers take cognizance of the validity of such prizes ; but they shall be at liberty to hoist sail, and depart as speedily as may

be, and carry their said prizes to the place mentioned in their commissions or patents, which the commanders of the said ships of war or privateers shall be obliged to show. No shelter or refuge shall be given in their ports to such as have made a prize upon the subjects or citizens of either of the said parties ; but if forced by stress of weather, or the dangers of the sea, to enter therein, particular care shall be taken to hasten their departure, and to cause them to retire as soon as possible.

Nothing in this treaty contained shall, however, be construed or operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with other sovereigns or states. But the two parties agree, that while they continue in amity, neither of them will in future make any treaty that shall be inconsistent with this or the preceding article.
Neither of the said parties shall permit the ships or goods belonging to the subjects or citizens of the other, to be taken within cannon-shot of the coast, nor in any of the bays, ports, or rivers of their territories, by ships of war, or others having commission from any prince, republic , or state whatever. But in case it should so happen , the party whose territorial rights shall thus have been violated , shall use his utmost endeavours to obtain from the offending party, full and ample satisfaction for the vessel or vessels so taken, whether the same be vessels of war or merchant vessels.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Privileges of
tcihteiszuenbsjeocftseaacnhd party residing in the dominions of the other in case of a rupture .

If at any time a rupture should take place, ( which God forbid) between his Majesty and the United States, the merchants and others of each of the two nations, residing in the dominions of the other, shall have the privilege of remaining and continuing their trade, so long as they behave peaceably, and commit no offence against the laws ; and in case their conduct should render them suspected, and the respective

governments should think proper to order them to remove, the term of

twelve months from the publication of the order shall be allowed them

for that purpose, to remove with their families, effects and property ; but this favour shall not be extended to those who shall act contrary to the

established laws ; and for greater certainty, it is declared, that such

rupture shall not be deemed to exist, while negociations for accommo-

dating differences shall be depending, nor until the respective ambassadors or ministers, if such there shall be, shall be recalled , or sent

home on account of such differences, and not on account of personal

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

129

misconduct, according to the nature and degrees of which, both parties retain their rights, either to request the recall, or immediately to send home the ambassador or minister of the other ; and that without prejudice to their mutual friendship and good understanding.

ARTICLE XXVII.
It is further agreed, that his Majesty and the United States, on mutual Criminals to requisitions, by them respectively, or by their respective ministers or be delivered up officers authorized to make the same, will deliver up to justice all per- to justice. sons, who, being charged with murder or forgery, committed within the jurisdiction of either, shall seek an asylum within any of the countries of the other, provided that this shall only be done on such evidence of criminality, as, according to the laws of the place, where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the offence had there been committed. The expence of such apprehension and delivery shall be borne and defrayed, by those who make the requisition and receive the fugitive.

ARTICLE XXVIII.
It is agreed, that the first ten articles of this treaty shall be permanent, and that the subsequent articles, except the twelfth, shall be limited in their duration to twelve years, to be computed from the day on which the ratifications of this treaty shall be exchanged, but subject to this condition, That whereas the said twelfth article will expire by the limitation therein contained, at the end of two years from the signing of the preliminary or other articles of peace, which shall terminate the present war in which his Majesty is engaged, it is agreed, that proper measures shall by concert be taken , for bringing the subject of that article into amicable treaty and discussion , so early before the expiration of the said term, as that new arrangements on that head, may, by that time, be perfected, and ready to take place. But if it should unfortunately happen, that his Majesty and the United States should not be able to agree on such new arrangements, in that case, all the articles of this
treaty, except the first ten , shall then cease and expire together.

Limitation.

Lastly. This treaty, when the same shall have been ratified by his Majesty, and by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, and the respective ratifications mutually exchanged, shall be binding and obligatory on his Majesty and on the said states, and shall be by them respectively executed, and observed , with punctuality and the most sincere regard to good faith ; and whereas it will be expedient, in order the better to facilitate intercourse and obviate difficulties, that other articles be proposed and added to this treaty, which articles, from want of time and other circumstances, cannot now be perfected ; it is agreed that the said parties will, from time to time, readily treat of and concerning such articles, and will sincerely endeavour so to form them, as that they may conduce to mutual convenience, and tend to promote mutual satisfaction and friendship ; and that the said articles, after having been duly ratified, shall be added to, and make a part of this treaty. In faith whereof, we, the undersigned ministers plenipotentiary of his Majesty the King of Great-Britain, and the United States of America, have signed this present treaty, and have caused to be affixed thereto the seal of our arms.

Ratification.

Done at London , this nineteenth Day of November, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four.

VOL. VIII. 17

GRENVILLE, (L. s.) JOHN JAY, (L. S.)

130

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1794.

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE.

Twelfth article suspended .
May 4, 1796.

It is further agreed between the said contracting parties, that the ope ration of so much of the twelfth article of the said treaty as respects
the trade which his said Majesty thereby consents may be carried on between the United States and his islands in the West-Indies, in the manner and on the terms and conditions therein specified, shall be sus pended.

EXPLANATORY ARTICLE.
"Whereas by the third article of the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, concluded at London, on the nineteenth day of November, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, it was agreed that it should at all times be free to his Majesty's subjects and to the citizens of the United States, and also to the Indians dwelling on either side of the boundary line, assigned by the treaty of peace to the United States, freely to pass and repass by land or inland navigation , into the respective territories and countries of the two contracting parties, on the continent of America, ( the country within the limits of the Hudson's Bay company only excepted ) and to navigate all the lakes, rivers and waters thereof, and freely to carry on trade and commerce with each other, subject to the provisions and limitations contained in the said article : And whereas by the eighth article of the treaty of peace and friendship concluded at Greenville, on the third day of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five , between the United States and the nations or tribes of Indians, called the Wyandots, Delawares , Shawanoes, Ottawas, Chippewas, Putawatimies, Miamis, Eel-River, Weeas, Kickapoos, Piankashaws and Kaskaskias, it was stipulated that no person should be permitted to reside at any of the towns or hunting camps of the said Indian tribes, as a trader, who is not furnished with a licence for that purpose, under the authority of the United States : Which latter stipulation has excited doubts, whether in its operation it may not interfere with the due execution of the said third article of the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation : And it being the sincere desire of his Britannic Majesty and of the United States, that this point should be so explained, as to remove all doubts , and promote mutual satisfaction and friendship : And for this purpose, his Britannic Majesty having named for his commissioner, Phineas Bond, Esquire, his Majesty's Consul General for the middle and southern states of America, ( and now his Majesty's Chargé d'Affaires to the United States) and the President of the United States having named for their commissioner, Timothy Pickering, Esquire, Secretary of State of the United States, to whom, agreeably to the laws of the United States, he has intrusted this negotiation ; They, the said commissioners, having communicated to each other their full powers, have, in virtue of the same, and conformably to the spirit of the last article of the said treaty of amity, commerce and navigation,
entered into this explanatory article, and do by these presents explicitly agree and declare, That no stipulations in any treaty subsequently concluded by either of the contracting parties with any other state or nation , or with any Indian tribe, can be understood to derogate in any manner from the rights of free intercourse and commerce, secured by the aforesaid third article of the treaty of amity, commerce and naviga tion, to the subjects of his Majesty and to the citizens of the United States, and to the Indians dwelling on either side of the boundary line. aforesaid ; but that all the said persons shall remain at full liberty freely to pass and repass by land or inland navigation, into the respective territories and countries of the contracting parties, on either side of the said boundary line, and freely to carry on trade and commerce with

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794 .

131

each other, according to the stipulations of the said third article of the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation.
This explanatory article, when the same shall have been ratified by his Majesty, and by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, and the respective ratifications mutually exchanged, shall be added to, and make a part of the said treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, and shall be permanently binding upon his Majesty and the United States.

IN WITNESS whereof, we, the said Commissioners of his Majesty, the King of Great-Britain and the United States of America, have signed this present explanatory article, and thereto affixed our seals. Done at Philadelphia, this fourth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six.

P. BOND, TIMOTHY PICKERING,

(L. S.) (L. S. )

EXPLANATORY ARTICLE , to be added to the treaty of Amity, Com- March 15, 1798. merce and Navigation, between the United States and his Britannic
Majesty.
Whereas by the twenty-eighth Article of the Treaty of Amity, Com- The commis. merce and Navigation, between his Britannic Majesty and the United tshioene5rtsh uarntdieclre States, signed at London the nineteenth day of November, one thou- released from sand seven hundred and ninety-four, it was agreed, that the contracting particularizing parties would from time to time, readily treat of and concerning such the latitude and
longitude of the further articles, as might be proposed, that they would sincerely en- source of the deavour so to form such articles, as that they might conduce to mutual river intended convenience, and tend to promote mutual satisfaction and friendship ; bCryotihxe. St. and that such articles, after having been duly ratified , should be added to and make a part of that Treaty : And whereas difficulties have arisen with respect to the execution of so much of the Fifth Article of the said treaty, as requires that the commissioners, appointed under the same, should in their description particularize the latitude and longitude of the source of the river, which may be found to be the one truly intended in the treaty of peace between his Britannic Majesty and the United States, under the name of the river St. Croix, by reason whereof it is expedient, that the said commissioners should be released from the obligation of conforming to the provisions of the said article in this respect. The undersigned being respectively named by his Britannic
Majesty and the United States of America, their plenipotentiaries for the purpose of treating of and concluding such articles as may be proper to be added to the said treaty, in conformity to the above-mentioned stipulation , and having communicated to each other their respective full powers, have agreed and concluded, and do hereby declare in the name of his Britannic Majesty and of the United States of America- That the commissioners appointed under the 5th article of the above-mentioned treaty shall not be obliged to particularize, in their description, the latitude and longitude of the source of the river, which may be found to be the one truly intended in the aforesaid treaty of peace, under the name of the river St. Croix, but they shall be at liberty to describe the said river, in such other manner, as they may judge expe-
dient, which description shall be considered as a compleat execution of the duty required of the said commissioners in this respect by the article aforesaid. And to the end that no uncertainty may hereafter exist on this subject, it is further agreed , That as soon as may be after the decision of the said commissioners, measures shall be concerted beween the government of the United States and his Britannic Majesty's

132

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1794.

governors or lieutenant governors in America, in order to erect and

A monument
to be erected at the source of that river.

keep in repair a suitable monument at the place ascertained and described to be the source of the said river St. Croix, which measures
shall immediately thereupon , and as often afterwards as may be requisite, be duly executed on both sides with punctuality and good faith.

This article to This explanatory article, when the same shall have been ratified by

btreeaatypaorftNoof-the his Majesty and by the President of the United States, by and with the

vember 19,

advice and consent of their Senate, and the respective ratifications mu-

1794.

tually exchanged, shall be added to and make a part of the treaty of

amity, commerce, and navigation between his Majesty and the United

States, signed at London on the nineteenth day of November, one thou-

sand seven hundred and ninety-four , and shall be permanently binding upon his Majesty and the United States.

Signed,

GRENVILLE, (L. S.) RUFUS KING , (L. s. )

LETTER FROM THOMAS JEFFERSON TO GEORGE HAMMOND.

Philadelphia, September 5, 1793. SIR,

I am honored with yours of August 30. Mine of the 7th of that month assured you that measures were

taken for excluding from all further asylum in our ports, vessels armed in them to cruise on nations with

which we are at peace, and for the restoration of the prizes the Lovely Lass, Prince William Henry, and

the Jane of Dublin ; and that should the measures for restitution fail in their effect, the president considered

it as incumbent on the United States to make compensation for the vessels. We are bound by our treaties with three of the belligerent nations, by all the means in our power, to

protect and defend their vessels and effects in our ports, or waters, or on the seas near our shores, and to recover and restore the same to the right owners when taken from them. Ifall the means in our power are used, and fail in their effect, we are not bound by our treaties with those nations to make compensation.
Though we have no similar treaty with Great Britain, it was the opinion of the president, that we should use towards that nation the same rule, which, under this article, was to govern us with the other nations; and even to extend it to captures made on the high seas, and brought into our ports ; if done by vessels which had been armed within them .

Having, for particular reasons, forbore to use all the means in our power for the restitution of the three

vessels mentioned in my letter of August 7th, the president thought it incumbent on the United States to

make compensation for them : And though nothing was said in that letter of other vessels taken under like circumstances, and brought in after the 5th of June, and before the date of that letter, yet when the same

forbearance had taken place, it was and is his opinion, that compensation would be equally due.

As to prizes made under the same circumstances, and brought in after the date of that letter, the president determined, that all the means in our power should be used for their restitution. If these fail, as we should

not be bound by our treaties to make compensation to the other powers in the analogous case, he did not

mean to give an opinion that it ought to be done to Great Britain. But still, if any cases shall arise subsequent to that date, the circumstances of which shall place them on similar ground with those before it, the

president would think compensation equally incumbent on the United States.

Instructions are given to the governors of the different states, to use all the means in their power for

restoring prizes of this last description found within their ports. Though they will, of course, take measures

to be informed ofthem, and the general government has given themthe aid ofthe custom house officers for

this purpose, yet you will be sensible of the importance of multiplying the channels of their information as far as shall depend on yourself, or any person under your direction, in order that the governors may use the means in their power for making restitution.

Without knowledge of the capture they cannot restore it. It will always be best to give the notice to

them directly ; but any information which you shall be pleased to send to me, also, at any time, shall be forwarded to them as quickly as distance will permit.

Hence you will perceive, sir, that the president contemplates restitution or compensation in the case before

the 7th of August ; and after that date, restitution if it can be effected by any means in our power. And

that it will be important that you should substantiate the fact, that such prizes are in our ports or waters.

Yourlist of the privateers illicitly armed in our ports, is, I believe, correct. With respect to losses by detention, waste, spoliation sustained by vessels taken as beforementioned, be-

tween the dates of June 5th and August 7th, it is proposed as a provisional measure, that the collector of

the customs of the district, and the British consul, or any other person you please, shall appoint persons to

establish the value of the vessel and cargo, at the time of her capture and of her arrival in the port into

which she is brought, according to their value in that port. If this shall be agreeable to you, and you will be pleased to signify it to me, withthe names of the prizes understood to be of this description, instructions

will be given accordingly, to the collector of the customs where the respective vessels are. I have the honor to be, & c.

George Hammond, esq.

THOMAS JEFFERSON.

A TREATY OF PEACE AND AMITY
Between the Dey of Algiers and the United States of America. (a)

A TREATY OF PEACE AND AMITY

Concluded this present day I-ima artasi, the twenty-first of the Sept. 5, 1795. Luna safer, year of the Hegira 1210, corresponding with Saturday the fifth of September, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five, between Hassan Bashaw, Dey of Algiers, his Divan and Subjects, and George Washington, President of the United States of North-America, and the Citizens of the said United States.
ARTICLE I.
FROM the date of the present treaty, there shall subsist a firm and Peace estasincere peace and amity between the President and citizens of the blished. United States of North-America, and Hassan Bashaw, Dey of Algiers, his Divan and subjects ; the vessels and subjects of both nations reciprocally treating each other with civility, honor and respect.

ARTICLE II.

All vessels belonging to the citizens of the United States of NorthAmerica, shall be permitted to enter the different ports of the Regency, to trade with our subjects, or any other persons residing within our jurisdiction, on paying the usual duties at our custom-house that is paid by all nations at peace with this Regency ; observing that all goods disembarked and not sold here shall be permitted to be reimbarked without paying any duty whatever, either for disembarking or embarking. All naval and military stores, such as gunpowder, lead, iron , plank, sulphur, timber for building, tar, pitch, rosin, turpentine, and any other goods denominated naval and military stores, shall be permitted to be sold in this Regency, without paying any duties whatever at the customhouse of this Regency.

Commercial
intercourse regulated.

ARTICLE III.

The vessels of both nations shall pass each other without any impediment or molestation ; and all goods, monies or passengers, of whatsoever nation, that may be on board of the vessels belonging to either party, shall be considered as inviolable, and shall be allowed to pass unmolested.

Vessels of
each nation to
pass unmolested.

ARTICLE IV.

All ships of war belonging to this Regency, on meeting with merchant-vessels belonging to citizens of the United States, shall be allowed to visit them with two persons only beside the rowers ; these two only

(a) The treaties between the United States and Algiers have been:

The Treaty of September 5 , 1795.

The Treaty of June 30, 1815 , post, 224.

Renewed Treaty with Algiers of 22d December, 1816, post, 244.

M

(133)

134

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1795.

How pass-
ports of vessels and ships ofwar shall be examined, and to whom to be
granted.

permitted to go on board said vessel , without obtaining express leave from the commander of said vessel , who shall compare the passport, and
immediately permit said vessel to proceed on her voyage unmolested . All ships of war belonging to the United States of North America, on meeting with an Algerine cruiser, and shall have seen her passport and certificate from the Consul of the United States of North America,

resident in this Regency, shall be permitted to proceed on her cruise

unmolested : no passport to be issued to any ships but such as are abso-

lutely the property of citizens of the United States : and eighteen months

shall be the term allowed for furnishing the ships of the United States with passports.

ARTICLE V.

No Algerine cruiser may take any person out of a vessel of the U. S.

No commander of any cruiser belonging to this regency , shall be allowed to take any person, of whatever nation or denomination , out of any vessel belonging to the United States of North-America, in order to examine them, or under pretence of making them confess any thing desired ; neither shall they inflict any corporal punishment, or any way else molest them.

Vessels of U. S stranded to be relieved.

ARTICLE VI.
If any vessel belonging to the United States of North-America, shall be stranded on the coast of this Regency, they shall receive every possible assistance from the subjects of this Regency : all goods saved from the wreck shall be permitted to be reimbarked on board of any other vessel, without paying any duties at the custom house.

ARTICLE VII.

Algerines not to sell vessels of war to the enemies of U. States.

The Algerines are not, on any pretence whatever, to give or sell any vessel of war to any nation at war with the United States of NorthAmerica, or any vessel capable of cruising to the detriment of the commerce of the United States.

When pass. port is not necessary.

ARTICLE VIII.
Any citizen of the United States of North-America, having bought any prize condemned by the Algerines, shall not be again captured by the cruisers of the regency then at sea, although they have not a passport ; a certificate from the consul resident being deemed sufficient, until such time they can procure such passport.

ARTICLE IX.

Other Barbary
satlaltoewsendottotoseblle prizes in Algiers.

If any of the Barbary states at war with the United States of North-
America, shall capture any American vessel and bring her into any of the ports of this Regency, they shall not be permitted to sell her, but shall depart the port on procuring the requisite supplies of provision.

ARTICLE X.

U. S. may send prizes into the ports ofthe
Regency.

Any vessel belonging to the United States of North-America, when at war with any other nation , shall be permitted to send their prizes into the ports of the Regency, have leave to dispose of them, without paying any duties on sale thereof. All vessels wanting provisions or refreshments , shall be permitted to buy them at market price.

How ships of war of U. S. shall be treated in the ports of the Regency.

ARTICLE XI.
All ships of war belonging to the United States of North-America, on anchoring in the ports of the Regency, shall receive the usual presents of provisions and refreshments, gratis. Should any of the slaves of this regency make their escape on board said vessels, they shall be imme-

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1795.

135

diately returned : No excuse shall be made that they have hid themselves amongst the people and cannot be found, or any other equivocation.
ARTICLE XII.

No citizen of the United States of North-America, shall be obliged to redeem any slave against his will, even should he be his brother : neither shall the owner of a slave be forced to sell him against his will : but all such agreements must be made by consent of parties. Should any American citizen be taken on board an enemy-ship, by the cruisers

shHaollwbeslraev-es deemed, and when captured persons shall be lawful prize.

of this Regency, having a regular passport, specifying they are citizens

of the United States, they shall be immediately set at liberty. On the

contrary, they having no passport, they and their property shall be con-

sidered lawful prize ; as this Regency know their friends by their

passports.

ARTICLE XIII.

Should any of the citizens of the United States of North-America, How the catate die within the limits of this Regency, the Dey and his subjects shall oUf.cSi.tidzyenisngofin not interfere with the property of the deceased ; but it shall be under the Regency the immediate direction of the consul : unless otherwise disposed of by shall be settled. will. Should there be no consul, the effects shall be deposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party shall appear who has a right to demand them ; when they shall render an account of the property. Neither shall the Dey or Divan give hindrance in the execu-
tion of any will that may appear.

ARTICLE XIV.

No citizen of the United States of North-America, shall be obliged
to purchase any goods against his will ; but, on the contrary, shall be allowed to purchase whatever it pleaseth him. The consul of the United
States of North-America, or any other citizen, shall not be amenable for debts contracted by any one of their own nation ; unless previously they have given a written obligation so to do. Should the Dey want to freight any American vessel that may be in the Regency, or Turkey, said vessel not being engaged, in consequence of the friendship subsisting between the two nations, he expects to have the preference given him, on his paying the same freight offered by any other nation.

No citizen of
U. S. to be compelled to purchase goods or pay debts of
another.

ARTICLE XV.

Any disputes or suits at law, that may take place between the sub- How disputes jects of the Regency and the citizens of the United States of North- shall be settled. America, shall be decided by the Dey in person, and no other. Any disputes that may arise between the citizens of the United States, shall be decided by the consul ; as they are in such cases not subject to the laws of this Regency.
ARTICLE XVI.

Should any citizen of the United States of North-America, kill, wound, or strike a subject of this Regency, he shall be punished in the same manner as a Turk, and not with more severity. Should any citizen of the United States of North-America, in the above predicament, escape prison, the consul shall not become answerable for him.

How crimes eshda.ll be punish-

ARTICLE XVII.

The consul of the United States of North-America , shall have every personal security given him and his houshold : he shall have liberty to exercise his religion in his own house : all slaves of the same religion , shall not be impeded in going to said consul's house , at hours of prayer The consul shall have liberty and personal security given him to travel

Privileges of the consul of the U. S.

136

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1795.

whenever he pleases, within the Regency : he shall have free license to go on board any vessel lying in our roads, whenever he shall think fit
The consul shall have leave to appoint his own drogaman and broker.

ARTICLE XVIII.

In case of war,
citizens of U. S. may embark unmolested.

Should a war break out between the two nations, the consul of the United States of North-America, and all citizens of said states, shall have leave to embark themselves and property unmolested, on board of what vessel or vessels they shall think proper.

ARTICLE XIX.

Citizens of either nation
captured by the other to be set at liberty.

Should the cruisers of Algiers capture any vessel, having citizens of the United States of North-America on board, they having papers to
prove they are really so, they and their property shall be immediately discharged. And should the vessels of the United States capture any vessels of nations at war with them, having subjects of this Regency on board, they shall be treated in like manner.

ARTICLE XX.
Vessels of war On a vessel of war belonging to the United States of North-America to be saluted. anchoring in our ports, the Consul is to inform the Dey of her arrival ;
and she shall be saluted with twenty-one guns ; which she is to return in the same quantity or number. And the Dey will send fresh provisions on board, as is customary, gratis.

ARTICLE XXI.

Consul not to pay duty.

The Consul of the United States of North-America shall not be required to pay duty for any thing he brings from a foreign country for the use of his house and family.

ARTICLE XXII .

War not to be doefcblraeraecdhionfcase treaty.
Sum to be paid to the Dey.

Should any disturbance take place between the citizens of the United States and the subjects of this Regency, or break any article of this
treaty, war shall not be declared immediately ; but every thing shall be searched into regularly : the party injured shall be made reparation.
On the 21st of the Luna of Safer, 1210, corresponding with the 5th September, 1795, Joseph Donaldson, jun. on the part of the United States of North-America, agreed with Hassan Bashaw, Dey of Algiers,

to keep the articles contained in this treaty sacred and inviolable ; which we the Dey and Divan promise to observe, on consideration of the United States paying annually the value of twelve thousand Algerine sequins in maritime stores. Should the United States forward a larger

quantity, the overplus shall be paid for in money, by the Dey and Regency. Any vessel that may be captured from the date of this treaty of peace and amity, shall immediately be delivered up on her arrival in

Algiers.

Signed, VIZIR HASSAN BASHAW,
JOSEPH DONALDSON, jun.

Seal of Algiers
stamped at the foot of the
original treaty in Arabic.

To all to whom these Presents shall come, or be made known : WHEREAS the under-written David Humphreys, hath been duly appointed Commissioner Plenipotentiary, by letters patent under the

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1795.

137

signature of the President, and seal of the United States of America, dated the 30th of March 1795 , for negociating and concluding a treaty of peace with the Dey and Governors of Algiers ; whereas by.instructions given to him on the part of the Executive, dated the 28th of March and 4th of April, 1795, he hath been further authorized to employ Joseph Donaldson, junior, on an agency in the said business ; whereas, by a writing under his hand and seal, dated 21st May, 1795, he did constitute and appoint Joseph Donaldson , junior, agent in the business aforesaid ; and the said Joseph Donaldson, jun. did, on the 5th of September, 1795, agree with Hassan Bashaw, Dey of Algiers, to keep the articles of the preceding treaty sacred and inviolable :
Now know ye, That I, David Humphreys, Commissioner Plenipotentiary aforesaid, do approve and conclude the said treaty, and every article and clause therein contained ; reserving the same nevertheless for the final ratification of the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States.
In Testimony whereof, I have signed the same with my Hand and Seal, at the City of Lisbon, this 28th of November, 1795.
DAVID HUMPHREYS. (L. s.)

VOL, VIII.

18

2M

TREATY OF FRIENDSHIP, LIMITS AND NAVIGATION,

Between the United States of America, and the King of Spain. (a)

Oct. 27, 1795.

His Catholic Majesty and the United States of America, desiring to consolidate, on a permanent basis, the friendship and good correspondence, which happily prevails between the two parties, have determined to establish, by a convention, several points, the settlement whereof

will be productive of general advantage and reciprocal utility to both nations.

With this intention , his Catholic Majesty has appointed the most excellent Lord, don Manuel de Godoy, and Alvarez de Faria, Rios, Sanchez, Zarzosa , Prince de la Paz , duke de la Alcudia, lord of the Soto de Roma, and of the state of Albalá, Grandee of Spain of the first class, perpetual regidor of the city of Santiago, knight of the illustrious order of the Golden Fleece, and Great Cross of the Royal and distinguished Spanish order of Charles the III . commander of Valencia, del Ventoso, Rivera, and Acenchal in that of Santiago ; Knight and Great Cross of the religious order of St. John ; Counsellor of state ; first Secretary of state and despacho ; Secretary to the Queen ; Superintendant General of the posts and highways ; Protector of the royal Academy ofthe noble arts, and of the royal societies of natural history, botany, chemistry, and astronomy ; Gentleman of the King's chamber

in employment ; Captain General of his armies ; Inspector and Major of the royal corps of body guards, & c. & c. & c. and the President of

the United States, with the advice and consent of their Senate, has ap-

pointed Thomas Pinckney, a citizen of the United States, and their Envoy Extraordinary to his Catholic Majesty. And the said Plenipotentiaries have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Peace esta blished.

ARTICLE I.

There shall be a firm and inviolable peace and sincere friendship

between his Catholic Majesty, his successors and subjects, and the United States, and their citizens, without exception of persons or

places.

ARTICLE II.

To prevent all disputes on the subject of the boundaries which separate the territories of the two high contracting parties, it is hereby

(a) The treaties with Spain have been : A Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Navigation between the United States and the King of Spain. October 27, 1795.
A Convention of Indemnification between the United States and Spain . August 11 , 1802 ; post , 198. Treaty of Amity, Settlement and Limits between the United States of America and his Catholic Ma-
jesty, negotiated February 22 , 1819. Ratified by the President and Senate on the 19th February, 1821 , and by the King of Spain on the 24th October, 1820, post, 252.
Treaty of Feb. 17, 1834, post, p. 460. Decisions in cases under the treaty with Spain of October 27, 1795, post. p. 252.
Under the Spanish treaty of 1795, stipulating that free ships shall make free goods , the want of such a sea-letter or passport, or such certificates as are described in the seventeenth article, is not a substantive
ground of condemnation . It only authorizes capture and sending in for adjudication , and the proprietary interest in the ship may be proved by other equivalent testimony. But if, upon the original evidence, the cause appears extremely doubtful and suspicious, and farther proof is necessary, the grant or denial of it rests on the same general rules which govern the discretion of prize courts in other cases. The Pizarro, 2 Wh44eat. 227 ; 4 Cond. Rep. 103.
The term subjects," in the fifteenth article of the treaty, when applied to persons owing allegiance
(138)

TRATADO DE AMISTAD, LIMITES , Y NAVEGACION
Entre los Estados Unidos de America y el Rey de
España.
DESEANDO S. M. Catolica, y los Estados Unidos de America consolidar de un modo permanente la buena correspondencia y amistad que felizmente reyna entre ambas partes, han resuelto fixar por medio de un convenio varios puntos , de cuyo arreglo resultará un beneficio general , y una utilidad reciproca â los dos paises.
Con esta mira han nombrado S. M. Catolica al Excelentisimo Sor Dn. Manuel de Godoy, y Alvarez de Faria, Rios, Sanchez , Zarzosa, Principe de la Paz , Duque de la Alcudia, Señor del Soto de Roma, y del Estado de Abalá, Grande de España de primera clase, Regidor perpetuo de la ciudad de Santiago, Caballero de la insigne orden del toyson de Oro, Gran Cruz de la Real y distinguida orden Española de Carlos III. Comendador de Valencia, del Ventoso, Rivera , y Acenchal en la de Santiago, Caballero Gran Cruz de la Religion de S. Juan, Consejero de Estado, primera Secretario de Estado y del Despacho, Secretario de la Reyna Na Sra Superintendente General de Correos y Caminos, Protector de la R' Academia de las nobles artes, y de los Rles. Gabinere de Historia Natural, Jardin Botanico, Laboratorio Chîmico, y Observatorio Astronomico ; Gentilhombre de Camara con exercicio ; Capitan General de los Reales Exercitos ; Inspector y Sargento Mayor del R. Cuerpo de Guardias de Corps, y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos, con el consentimiento y aprobacion del Senado, à D? Thomas Pinckney, ciudadano de los mismos Estados, y su Enviado Extraordinario cerca de S. M. Catholica, y ambos Plenipotenciarios han ajustado y firmado los articulos siguientes :
ART. I.
Habrá una Paz solida ê inviolable, y una amistad sincera entre S. M. Catolica sus succesores y subditos, y los Estados Unidos y sus Ciudadanos sin excepcion de personas, ô lugares.
ART. II.
Para evitar toda disputa en punto â los limites que separan los territorios de las dos altas partes contratantes, se han convenido, y declarado
to Spain, must be construed in the same sense as the term " citizens, " or " inhabitants," when applied to persons owing allegiance to the United States ; and extends to all persons domiciled in the Spanish dominions. Ibid.
The Spanish character of the ship being ascertained, the proprietary interest of the cargo cannot be inquired into ; unless so far as to ascertain that it does not belong to citizens of the United States, whose property engaged in trade with the enemy is not protected by the treaty. Ibid.
The seventeenth article of the Spanish treaty of 1795, so far as it purports to give any effect to passports, is imperfect and inoperative, in consequence of the omission to annex the form of passport to the treaty. The Amiable Isabella , 6 Wheat. 1 ; 5 Cond . Rep. 1 .
By the Spanish treaty of 1795, free ships make free goods ; but the form of the passport, by which the freedom of the ship was to have been conclusively established , never having been duly annexed to the treaty, the proprietary interest of the ship is to be proved according to the ordinary rules of the prize court ; and if thus shown to be Spanish, will protect the cargo on board, to whomsoever the latter may belong. Ibid.
The treaty with Spain of 1795 , does not contain, express or implied, a stipulation that enemy's ships shall make enemy's goods. The Nereide; Bennet , Master, 9 Cranch , 388 ; 3 Cond. Rep. 439.
(139)

140

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

Southern boundary line established.

declared and agreed as follows, to wit. The southern boundary of the United States, which divides their territory from the Spanish colonies of East and West Florida, shall be designated by a line beginning on the river Missisippi, at the northernmost part of the thirty-first degree of latitude north of the equator, which from thence shall be drawn due east to the middle of the river Apalachicola, or Catahouche, thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint : thence straight to the head of St. Mary's river, and thence down the middle thereof to the Atlantic ocean. And it is agreed, that if there should be any
troops, garrisons, or settlements of either party, in the territory of the other, according to the above-mentioned boundaries, they shall be withdrawn from the said territory within the term of six months after the ratification of this treaty, or sooner if it be possible ; and that they shall be permitted to take with them all the goods and effects which they possess.
ARTICLE III.

Commission. ers to run the boundary line.

In order to carry the preceding article into effect, one commissioner and one surveyor shall be appointed by each of the contracting parties, who shall meet at the Natchez, on the left side of the river Missisippi, before the expiration of six months from the ratification of this convention, and they shall proceed to run and mark this boundary according to the stipulations of the said article. They shall make plats and keep journals of their proceedings, which shall be considered as part of this convention, and shall have the same force as if they were inserted therein. And if on any account it should be found necessary that the said commissioners and surveyors should be accompanied by guards, they shall be furnished in equal proportions by the commanding officer of his Majesty's troops in the two Floridas, and the commanding officer of the troops of the United States in their southwestern territory, who shall act by common consent, and amicably, as well with respect to this point as to the furnishing of provisions and instruments, and making every other arrangement which may be necessary or useful for the execution of this article.
ARTICLE IV.

Mississippi to
be the western boundary, and the navigation thereof secured.

It is likewise agreed that the western boundary of the United States which separates them from the Spanish colony of Louissiana, is in the middle of the channel or bed of the river Missisippi, from the northern boundary of the said states to the completion of the thirty-first degree of latitude north of the equator. And his Catholic Majesty has likewise agreed that the navigation of the said river, in its whole breadth from its source to the ocean, shall be free only to his subjects and the citizens of the United States, unless he should extend this privilege to the subjects of other powers by special convention.

ARTICLE V.

How each nation shall conduct with Indians in their
respective territories.

The two high contracting parties shall, by all the means in their power, maintain peace and harmony among the several Indian nations who inhabit the country adjacent to the lines and rivers , which , by the preceding articles, form the boundaries of the two Floridas. And the better to obtain this effect, both parties oblige themselves expressly to

restrain by force all hostilities on the part of the Indian nations living

within their boundary : so that Spain will not suffer her Indians to

attack the citizens of the United States, nor the Indians inhabiting

their territory ; nor will the United States permit these last-mentioned

Indians to commence hostilities against the subjects of his Catholic

Majesty or his Indians, in any manner whatever.

And whereas several treaties of friendship exist between the two con-

tracting parties and the said nations of Indians, it is hereby agreed that

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

141

en el presente articulo lo siguiente, à saber. Que el limite meridional de los Estados Unidos, que sepára su territorio de el de las colonias Españolas de la Florida Occidental y de la Florida Oriental, se demarcará por una linea que empieze en el Rio Misisipi, en la parte mas septentrional del grado treinta y uno al norte del Equador, y q? desde alli siga en derechura al Este, hasta el medio del Rio Apalachicola ô Catahouche, desde alli por la mitad de este Rio hasta su union con el Flint : de alli en derechura hasta el nacimiento del Rio Sta Maria ; y de alli baxando por el medio de este Rio hasta el oceano Atlantico. Yse han convenido las dos potencias en que si hubiese tropa, guarniciones, ô establecimientos de la una de las dos partes en el territorio de la otra, segun los limites que se acaban de mencionar, se retirarán de dicho territorio en el termino de seis meses despues de la ratificacion de este tratado, ô antes si fuese posible, y que se les permitirá llevar consigo todos los bienes y efectos q: posean.
ART. III.
Para la execucion del articulo antecedente se nombrarán por cada una de las dos altas partes contratantes un comisario y un geometra q se juntarán en Natchez en la orilla izquierda del Misisipi, antes de expirar el termino de seis meses despues de la ratificacion de la convencion presente ; y procederán à la demarcacion de estos limites conforme
à lo estipulado en el articulo anterior. Levantarán planos, y formarán Diarios de sus operaciones, que se reputarán como parte de este Tratado, y tendran la misina fuerza que si estubieran insertas en el. Y si
por qualquier motivo se creyese necesario que los dichos Comisarios y Geometras fuesen acompañados con guardias, se les darán en numero igual por el general que mande las tropas de S. M. en las dos Floridas, y el Comandante de las tropas de los Estados Unidos en su territorio del Sudoeste, que obrarán de acuerdo y amistosamente, asi en este punto como en el de apronto de viveres ê instrumentos, y en tomar qualesquiera otras disposiciones necesarias para la execucion de este articulo.

ART. IV.
Se han convenido igualmente que el limite Occidental del territorio de los Estados Unidos que los separa de la Colonia Española de la Luisiana está en medio del canal ô madre del Rio Misisipi desde el limite septentrional de dichos Estados hasta el complemento de los treinta y un grados de latitud al Norte del Equador ; y S. M. Catolica ha convenido igualmente en que la navegacion de dicho Rio en toda su extension desde su ovilla hasta el oceano, será libre solo à sus subditos y à los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos, â menos que por algun tratado particular haga extensiva esta libertad à subditos de sotras potencias.
ART. V.
Las dos altas partes contratantes procurarán por todos los medios posibles mantener la paz , y buena armonia entre las diversus naciones de Indios que habitan los terrenos adyacentes â las lineas y rios que en los articulos anteriores forman los limites de las dos Floridas ; y para conseguir mejor este fin se obligan expresamente ambas potencias à reprimir con la fuerza todo genero de hostilidades de parte de las naciones Indias que habitan dentro de la linea de sus respectivos limites : de modo que ni la España permitirá que sus Indios ataquen â los que vivan en el territorio de los Estados Unidos ô à sus ciudadanos, ni los Estados que los suyos hostilizen â los subditos de S. M. Catolica ô â sus Indios de manera alguna.
Exîstiendo varios tratados de amistad entre las expresadas naciones y las dos potencias, se ha convenido en no hacer en lo venidero alianza

142

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

in future no treaty of alliance or other whatever (except treaties of peace) shall be made by either party with the Indians living within the boundary of the other, but both parties will endeavour to make the advantages of the Indian trade common and mutually beneficial to their respective subjects and citizens, observing in all things the most complete reciprocity, so that both parties may obtain the advantages arising from a good understanding with the said nations, without being subject to the expence which they have hitherto occasioned.

ARTICLE VI.

Each nation to
sperlosteocfttthheeovtehse-r in their jurisdiction.

Each party shall endeavour, by all means in their power, to protect and defend all vessels and other effects belonging to the citizens or sub-
jects of the other, which shall be within the extent of their jurisdiction by sea or by land, and shall use all their efforts to recover and cause to be restored to the right owners, their vessels and effects which may have been taken from them within the extent of their said jurisdiction , whether they are at war or not with the power whose subjects have taken possession of the said effects.

ARTICLE VII .

No embargo

And it is agreed that the subjects or citizens of each of the contract-

allowed.

ing parties, their vessels or effects, shall not be liable to any embargo

or detention on the part of the other, for any military expedition or

other public or private purpose whatever : And in all cases of seizure,

In cases of detention, or arrest for debts contracted , or offences committed by any

seizure for debts citizen or subject of the one party within the jurisdiction of the other,
or crimes, how the same shall be made and prosecuted by order and authority of law to proceed.
only, and according to the regular course of proceedings usual in such
cases. The citizens and subjects of both parties shall be allowed to

employ such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their affairs, and in all their trials at law, in which they may be concerned , before the tribunals of the other party ; and such agents shall have free access to be present at the proceedings in such causes, and at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited in the said trials.

ARTICLE VIII.

Vessels forced
into port by stress of weather to be relieved.

In case the subjects and inhabitants of either party, with their shipping, whether public and of war, or private and of merchants, be forced, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, or any other urgent necessity, for seeking of shelter and harbour, to retreat and enter into any of the rivers, bays, roads or ports belonging to the other party, they shall be received and treated with all humanity, and enjoy all favor, protection and help , and they shall be permitted to refresh and provide themselves, at reasonable rates, with victuals and all things needful for the sustenance of their persons, or reparation of their ships and prosecution of their voyage ; and they shall no ways be hindered from returning out of the said ports or roads, but may remove and depart when and whither they please, without any let or hindrance.

ARTICLE IX.

Property taken
from pirates to be restored.

All ships and merchandize, of what nature soever, which shall be rescued out of the hands of any pirates or robbers on the high seas, shall be brought into some port of either state, and shall be delivered to the custody of the officers of that port, in order to be taken care of, and restored entire to the true proprietor, as soon as due and sufficient proof shall be made concerning the property thereof.

ARTICLE X.

When any vessel of either party shall be wrecked , foundered , or

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

143

alguna ô tratado (excepto los de paz) con las Naciones de Indios que habitan dentro de los limites de la otra parte, aunque procurarán hacer comun su comercio en beneficio amplio de los subditos y ciudadanos respectivos, guardandose en todo la reciprocidad mas completa, de suerte qe sin los dispendios que han causado hasta ahora dichas naciones
á las dos partes contratantes, consigan ambas todas las ventajas q? debe producir la armonia con ellas.

ART. VI.
Cada una de las dos partes contratantes procurará por todos los medios posibles, protexer y defender todos los buques y qualesquiera otros efectos pertenecientes à los subditos y ciudadanos de la otra que se hallen en la extension de su jurisdicion por mar ô por tierra, y empleará todos sus esfuerzos para recobrar y hacer restituir à los proprietarios lexitimos los buques y efectos que se les hayan quitado en la extension de dicha jurisdiccion estén ô no en guerra con la potencia cuyos subditos hayan interceptado dichos efectos.
ART. VII.
Se ha convenido que los ciudadanos y subditos de una de las partes contratantes, sus buques, ô efectos no podran sujetarse à ningun embargo ô detencion de parte de la otra à causa de alguna expedicion militar, uso publico ô particular de qualquiera que sea. Y en los casos
de aprehension detencion ô arresto, bien sea por deudas contrahidas û ofensas cometidas por algun ciudadano ô subdito de una de las partes contratantes en la jurisdiccion de la otra, se procederá unicamente por orden y autoridad de la justicia, y segun los tramites ordinarios seguidos en semejantes casos. Se permitira à los ciudadanos y subditos de ambas partes emplear los abogados, procuradores, notarios, agentes ô factores que juzguen mas à proposito en todos sus asuntos y en todos los pleytos q podrán tener en los tribunales de la otra parte, â los quales se permitirá igualmente el tener libre acceso en las causas, y estar presentes â todo examen y testimonios que podran ocurrir en los pleytos.

ART. VIII. Quando los subditos y habitantes de la una de las dos partes contratantes con sus buques, bien sean publicos y de guerra, bien particulares ô mercantiles se viesen obligados por una tempestad, por escapar de piratas ô de enemigos, ô por qualquiera otra necesidad urgente à buscar refugio y abrigo en alguno de los rios, habias, radas, ô puertos de una de las dos partes , seran recibidos y tratados con humanidad, y gozaran de todo fabor, proteccion, y socorro, y les será licito proveerse de refrescos, viveres, y demas cosas necesarias para su sustento, para componer los buques, y continuar su viage, todo mediante un precio equitativo ; y no se les detendrá ô impedirá de modo alguno el salir de dichos puertos ô radas, antes bien podran retirarse y partir como y quando les pareciere sin ningun obstaculo ô impedimento.
ART. IX .
Todos los buques y mercaderias de qualquiera naturaleza que sean , que se hubiesen quitado à algunos piratas en alta mar y se traxesen á algun puerto de una de las dos potencias, se entregarán alli â los oficiales ô empleados en dicho puerto á fin de que los guarden y restituyan integramente à su verdadero proprietario luego que hiciese constar debida y plenamente que era su legitima propiedad.
ART. X.
En el caso de que un buque perteneciente à una de las dos partes

144

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

Vossels wreck. otherwise damaged, on the coasts or within the dominion of the other, teodboer froeluinedveerde. d their respective subjects or citizens shall receive, as well for themselves
as for their vessels and effects, the same assistance which would be due to the inhabitants of the country where the damage happens, and shall pay the same charges and dues only as the said inhabitants would be
subject to pay in a like case : And if the operations of repair would require that the whole or any part of the cargo be unladen, they shall pay no duties, charges or fees on the part which they shall relade and
carry away.

ARTICLE XI.

Settlement of the estates of deceased perBons.

The citizens and subjects of each party shall have power to dispose
of their personal goods, within the jurisdiction of the other, by testament, donation or otherwise, and their representatives being subjects or citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods , whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof, either by themselves or others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.
And in case of the absence of the representative, such care shall be taken of the said goods, as would be taken of the goods of a native in like case, until the lawful owner may take measures for receiving them. And if questions shall arise among several claimants to which of them the said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally by the laws and judges of the land wherein the said goods are. And where, on the death of any person holding real estate within the territories of the one party, such real estate would by the laws of the land descend on a citizen or subject of the other, were he not disqualified by being an alien, such subject shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell the same, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation , and exempt from all rights of detraction on the part of the government of the respective states.

ARTICLE XII.

Vessels sus-
hpiebcittepdasshsaplolrtesx and certificates.

The merchant-ships of either of the parties which shall be making into a port belonging to the enemy of the other party, and concerning whose voyage, and the species of goods on board her, there shall be just
grounds of suspicion, shall be obliged to exhibit as well upon the high seas as in the ports and havens, not only her passports but likewise certificates, expressly showing that her goods are not of the number of those which have been prohibited as contraband.

ARTICLE XIII.

In case of war For the better promoting of commerce on both sides, it is agreed,

oednetoymeaerrcahlalnotws that if a war shall break out between the said two nations, one year

to remove.

after the proclamation of war shall be allowed to the merchants, in the

cities and towns where they shall live, for collecting and transporting

their goods and merchandizes : And if any thing be taken from them

or any injury be done them within that term, by either party, or the people or subjects of either, full satisfaction shall be made for the same

No citizen of either nation shall take a commission
from a foreign power to arm privateers against the other.

by the government.

ARTICLE XIV.

No subject of his Catholic Majesty shall apply for, or take any commission or letters of marque, for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the said United States, or against the citizens, people or inhabitants of the said United States, or against the property of any of
the inhabitants of any of them, from any prince or state with which the said United States shall be at war.

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

145

contratantes naufragase, varase , ô sufriese alguna avería en las costas ô en los dominios de la otra, se socorrera â los subditos ô ciudadanos
respectivos, así â sus personas como â sus buques y efectos, del mismo modo que se haria con los habitantes del pais donde suceda la desgracia, y pagaran solo las mismas cargas y derechos q se hubieran exigido de dichos habitantes en semejante caso. Y si fuese necesario para componer el buque q se descargue el cargamento en todo ô en parte, no pagarán impuesto alguno, carga, ô derecho de lo que se vuelva à embarcar para ser exportado.

ART. XI.
Los ciudadanos ô subditos de una de las dos partes contratantes tendran en los estados de la otra la libertad de disponer de sus bienes personales bien sea por testamento, donacion , û otra manera, y si sus herederos fuesen subditos ô ciudadanos de la otra parte contratante, sucederán en sus bienes ya sea en virtud de testamento ô ab intestado, y podran tomar posesion, bien en persona, ô por medio de otros que hagan sus veces, y disponer como les pareciere sin pagar mas derechos que aquellos q . deben pagar en semejante caso los habitantes del pais donde se verificase la herencia. Y si estubiesen ausentes los herederos
se cuidará de los bienes que les hubiesen tocado, del mismo modo que se hubiera hecho en semejante ocasion con los bienes de los naturales del pais, hasta que el legitimo propietario haya aprobado las disposiciones para recoger la herencia. Si se suscitasen disputas entre diferentes competidores que tengan derecho à la herencia, serán determinadas en ultima instancia segun las leyes, y por los jueces del pais en que vacase la herencia. Y si por la muerte de alguna persona que poseyese bienes raices sobre el territorio de una de las partes contratantes, estos bienes raices llegasen à pasar segun las leyes del pais à un subdito ô ciudadano de la otra parte, y este por su calidad de extrangero fuese inhabil para poseerlos, obtendra un termino conveniente para venderlos y recoger su producto sin obstaculo, exento de todo derecho de retencion de parte del gobierno de los Estados respectivos.

ART. XII .
A los buques mercantes de las dos partes q fuesen destinados à puertos pertenecientes â una potencia enemiga de una de las dos, cuyo viage y naturaleza del cargamento diese justas sospechas, se les obligará à presentar bien sea en alta mar, bien en los puertos y cabos, no solo sus pasaportes sino tambien los certificados que probarán expresamente que su cargamento no es de la especie de los que están prohibidos como de contrabando.

ART. XIII.

A fin de faborecer el comercio de ambas partes, se ha convenido que en el caso de romperse la guerra entre las dos naciones, se concedera el termino de un año despues de su declaracion , á los comerciantes en las villas y ciudades que habitan, para juntar y transportar sus mercaderias, y si se les quitase alguna parte de ellas, ô hiciese algun daño durante el tiempo prescrito arriba por una de las dos potencias sus pueblos ô subditos , se les dará en este punto entera satisfaccion por el gobierno.
ART. XIV .

Ningun subdito de S. M. Catolica tomará encargo ô patente para

armar buque ô buques q? obren como corsarios contra dichos Estados

Unidos, ô contra los ciudadanos pueblos y habitantes de los mismos, ô

contra su propiedad ô la de los habitantes de alguno de ellos de qual-

quier Principe que sea con quien estubieren en guerra los Estados Unidos.

VOL. VIII. 19

N

146

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

Nor shall any citizen, subject or inhabitant of the said United States
apply for or take any commission or letters of marque for arming any ship or ships to act as privateers against the subjects of his Catholic
Majesty, or the property of any of them, from any prince or state with which the said king shall be at war. And if any person of either nation shall take such commissions or letters of marque, he shall be punished as a pirate.
ARTICLE XV.

Liberty of trade to enemies' ports secured .
Free ships make free goods, excepting contraband.

It shall be lawful for all and singular the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, and the citizens, people and inhabitants of the said United States, to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made who are the proprietors of the merchandizes laden thereon, from any port to the places of those who now are, or hereafter shall be at enmity with his Catholic Majesty or the United States. It shall be likewise lawful for the subjects and inhabitants aforesaid , to sail with the ships and merchandizes aforementioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports and havens of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy aforementioned, to neutral places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of the same prince or under several ; and it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed free and exempt which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the subjects of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either : Contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, so that although they be enemies to either party, they shall not be made prisoners or taken out of that free ship, unless they are soldiers and in actual service of the enemies.

ARTICLE XVI.
What articles This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of shall be deemed merchandizes, excepting those only, which are distinguished by the contraband. name of contraband : And under this name of contraband or prohibited
goods, shall be comprehended arms, great guns, bombs, with the fusees , and other things belonging to them, cannon-ball, gunpowder , match, pikes, swords, lances, speards, halberds, mortars, petards, grenades, saltpetre, muskets, musket-ball, bucklers, helmets, breast-plates, coats of mail, and the like kind of arms, proper for arming soldiers, musketrests, belts , horses with their furniture, and all other warlike instruments whatever. These merchandizes which follows, shall not be reckoned among contraband or prohibited goods : That is to say, all sorts of cloths, and all other manufactures woven of any wool, flax, silk , cotton, or any other materials whatever ; all kinds of wearing aparel, together with all species whereof they are used to be made ; gold and silver, as well coined as uncoined , tin , iron , latton , copper, brass , coals ; as also wheat, barley, oats, and any other kind of corn and pulse ; tobacco, and likewise all manner of spices, salted and smoked flesh salted fish, cheese and butter, beer, oils, wines, sugars, and all sorts of salts : And in general, all provisions which serve for the sustenance of life : Furthermore, all kinds of cotton , hemp, flax, tar, pitch, ropes, cables, sails, sail- cloths, anchors, and any parts of anchors, also ships' masts , planks, wood of all kind , and all other things proper either for bailling or repairing ships, and all other goods whatever, which have

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

147

Ygualmente ningun ciudadano ô habitante de dichos Estados Unidos

pedirá ô aceptará encargo ô patente para armar algun buque ô buques

con el fin de perseguir los subditos de S. M. Catolica, ô apoderarse de

su propiedad, de qualquier Principe ô Estado que sea con quien estu-

viere en guerra S. M. Catolica. Y si algun individuo de una ô de otra

nacion tomase semejantes encargos ô patentes sera castigado como

pirata.

ART. XV.

Se permitirá à todos y â cada uno de los subditos de S. M. Catolica, y â los ciudadanos pueblos y habitantes de dichos Estados, qe puedan navegar con sus embarcaciones con toda libertad, y seguridad sin que haya la menor excepcion por este respecto, aunque los propietarios de las mercaderias cargadas en las referidas embarcaciones vengan del puerto que quieran, y las traygan destinadas â qualquiera plaza de una potencia actualmente enemiga ô q lo sea despues, asi de S. M. Catolica como de los Estados Unidos. Se permitirá igualmente à los subditos y habitantes mencionados navegar con sus buques y mercaderías, y frequentar con igual libertad y seguridad las plazas y puertos de las potencias enemigas de las partes contratantes, ô de una de ellas sin oposicion û obstaculo, y de comerciar no solo desde los puertos del dicho enemigo à un puerto neutro directamente, si no tambien desde uno enemigo â otro tal, bien se encuentre bajo su jurisdicion, ô bajo la de muchos ; y se estipula tambien por el presente tratado que los buques libres asegurarán igualmente la libertad de las mercaderías, y que se juzgaran libres todos los efectos que se hallasen â bordo de los buques que perteneciesen â los subditos de una de las partes contratantes, aun quando el cargamo por entero ô parte de el fuese de los enemigos de una de las dos, bien entendido sin embargo q el contrabando se exceptua siempre. Se ha convenido asi mismo que la propia libertad gozarán los sugetos que pudiesen encontrarse â bordo del buque libre, aun quando fuesen enemigos de una de las dos partes contratantes ; y por lo tanto no se podra hacer prisioneros ni separarlos de dichos buques à menos qe no tengan la qualidad de militares, y esto hallandose en aquella sazon empleados en el servicio del enemigo.

ART. XVI.

Esta libertad de navegacion y de comercio debe extenderse â toda especie de mercaderias exceptuando solo las que se comprehenden bajo el nombre de contrabando, ô de mercaderias prohibidas, quales son las armas, cañones, bombas con sus mechas, y demas cosas pertenecientes â lo mismo, balas, polvora, mechas, picas, espadas, lanzas, dardos, alabardas, morteros, petardos, granadas, salitre, fusiles, balas, escudos, casquetes, corazas, cotas de malla, y otras armas de esta especie propias para armar â los soldados, portamosquetes, bandoleras, caballos con sus armas y otros instrumentos de guerra sean los que fueren. Pero los generos y mercaderias que se nombrarán ahora, no se comprehenderán entre los de contrabando ô cosas prohibidas, à saber : toda especie de paños y qualesquiera otras telas de lana, lino, seda, algodon û otras qualesquiera materias, toda especie de vestidos con las telas de que se acostumbran hacer, el oro y la plata labrada en moneda ô no, el estaño, y erro, laton, cobre, bronce, carbon , del mismo modo que la cevada, el trigo, la avena, y qualesquiera otro genero de legumbres. El tabaco y toda la especeria, carne salada y ahumada, pescado salado, queso y manteca, cerveza, aceytes, vinos, azucar, y toda especie de sal, y en general todo genero de provisiones que sirven para el sustento de la vida. Ademas toda especie de algodon, cañamo, lino, alquitran, pez, cuerdas, cables , velas, telas para velas, ancoras, y partes de que se componen. Mastiles, tablas, maderas de todas especies, y qualesquiera otras cosas que sirvan para la construccion y reparacion de los buques,

148

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

not been worked into the form of any instrument prepared for war, by
land or by sea, shall not be reputed contraband , much less , such as have been already wrought and made up for any other use ; all which shall be wholly reckoned among free goods : As likewise all other merchandizes and things which are not comprehended and particularly mentioned in the foregoing enumeration of contraband goods : So that they may be transported and carried in the freest manner by the subjects of both parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, such towns or places being only excepted, as are at that time besieged, blocked up, or invested. And except the cases in which any ship of war, or squadron shall, in consequence of storms or other accidents at sea, be under the necessity of taking the cargo of any trading vessel or vessels, in which case they may stop the said vessel or vessels, and furnish themselves with necessaries, giving a receipt, in order that the power to whom the said ship of war belongs, may pay for the articles so taken, according to the price thereof, at the port to which they may appear to have been destined by the ship's papers : and the two contracting parties engage, that the vessels shall not be detained longer than may be absolutely necessary for their said ships to supply themselves with necessaries : That they will immediately pay the value of the receipts, and indemnify the proprietor for all losses which he may have sustained in consequence of such transaction.

Regulations
respecting pass ports and sealetters .

ARTICLE XVII.
To the end, that all manner of dissentions and quarrels may be avoided and prevented on one side and the other, it is agreed, that in case either of the parties hereto, should be engaged in a war, the ships and vessels belonging to the subjects or people of the other party must be furnished with sea-letters or passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of the said ship, that it may appear thereby, that
the ship really and truly belongs to the subjects of one of the parties, which passport shall be made out and granted according to the form annexed to this treaty. They shall likewise be recalled every year, that is, if the ship happens to return home within the space of a year.
It is likewise agreed, that such ships being laden, are to be provided not only with passports as above mentioned, but also with certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, the place whence the ship sailed, that so it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same : which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship sailed in the accustomed form : And if any one shall think it fit or advisable to express in the said certificates, the person to whom the goods on board belong, he may freely do so Without which requisites they may be sent to one of the ports of the other contracting party, and adjudged by the competent tribunal, according to what is above set forth, that all the circumstances of this omission having been well examined, they shall be adjudged to be legal prizes, unless they shall give legal satisfaction of their property by testimony entirely equivalent.

Vessels shall exhibit pass-
ports to ships of war.

ARTICLE XVIII .
If the ships of the said subjects , people , or inhabitants, of either of the parties, shall be met with, either sailing along the coasts or on the high seas, by any ship of war of the other, or by any privateer, the said ship of war or privateer for the avoiding of any disorder, shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send their boats a-board the merchant ship , which they shall so meet with, and may enter her to number of two or three men only, to whom the master or commander of such ship or vessel shall exhibit his passports, concerning the property of the ship,

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795.

149

y otras qualesquiera materias que no tienen la forma de un instrumento preparado para la guerra por tierra ô por mar, no seran reputadas de contrabando, y menos las que estan ya preparadas para otros usos. Todas las cosas que se acaban de nombrar deben ser comprehendidas entre las mercaderias libres, lo mismo que todas las demas mercaderias y efectos que no estan comprehendidos y nombrados expresamente en la enumeracion de los generos de contrabando, de manera que podran ser transportados y conducidos con la mayor libertad por los subditos de las dos partes contratantes â las plazas enemigas, exceptuando sin embargo las q se hallasen en la actualidad sitiadas, bloqueadas, ô embestidas, y los casos en que algun buque de guerra ô esquadra que por efecto de avería, û otras causas se halle en necesidad de tomar los efectos que conduzca el buque ô buques de comercio, pues en tal caso podra detenerlos para aprovisionarse, y dar un recibo para que la potencia cuyo sea el buque que tome los efectos, los pague segun el valor que tendrian en el puerto adonde se dirigiese el propietario, segun lo expresen sus cartas de navegacion : obligandose las dos partes contratantes â no detener los buques mas de lo que sea absolutamente necesario para aprovisionarse, pagar inmediatamente los recibos, y â indemnizar todos los daños q sufra el propietario â consequencia de semejante suceso.

ART. XVII.
A fin de evitar entre ambas partes toda especie de disputas y quejas, se ha convenido q en el caso de que una de las dos potencias se hallase empeñada en una guerra, los buques y bastimentos pertenecientes à los subditos ô pueblos de la otra, deberan llevar consigo patentes de mar ô pasaportes que expresen el nombre, la propiedad, y el porte del buque, como tambien el nombre y morada de su dueño y comandante de dicho buque, para que de este modo conste que pertenece real y verdaderam' à los subditos de una de las dos partes contratantes ; y que dichos pasaportes deberan expedirse segun el modelo adjunto al presente tratado. Todos los años deberán renovarse estos pasaportes en el caso de que el buque vuelva â su pais en el espacio de un año.
Ygualmente se ha convenido en que los buques mencionados arriba, si estuviesen cargados, deberán llevar no solo los pasaportes sino tambien certificados que contengan el pormenor del cargamento, el lugar de donde ha salido el buque, y la declaracion de las mercaderias de contrabando q pudiesen hallarse â bordo, cuyos certificados deberán expedirse en la forma acostumbrada por los oficiales empleados en el lugar de donde el navio se hiciese â la vela, y si se juzgase util y prudente expresar en dichos pasaportes la persona propietaria de las mercaderias se podra hacer libremente, sin cuyos requisitos sera conducido à uno de los puertos de la potencia respectiva, y juzgado por el tribunal competente, con arreglo â lo arriba dicho, para que exâminadas bien las circunstancias de su falta, sea condenado por de buena presa si no satisfaciese legalmente con los testimonios equivalentes en un todo.

ART. XVIII .
Quando un buque perteneciente a los dichos subditos pueblos y habitantes de una de las dos partes fuese encontrado navegando à lo largo de la costa ô en plena mar por un buque de guerra de la otra ô por un corsario, dicho buque de guerra ô corsario, à fin de evitar todo desorden, se mantendrá fuera del tiro de cañon , y podra enviar su chalupa a bordo del buque mercante, hacer entrar en el dos ô tres hombres à los quales enseñará el patron ô comandante del buque sus pasaportes y demas documentos, que deberan ser conformes â lo pre-
N2

150

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1795 .

made out according to the form inserted in this present treaty, and the ship when she shall have shewed such passports, shall be free and at liberty to pursue her voyage, so as it shall not be lawful to molest or
give her chace in any manner, or force her to quit her intended course.

Consuls.

ARTICLE XIX .
Consuls shall be reciprocally established, with the privileges and powers which those of the most favoured nations enjoy, in the ports where their consuls reside or are permitted to be.

ARTICLE XX.

Courts ofjusLice to be open
to citizens of sach nation.

It is also agreed that the inhabitants of the territories of each party shall respectively have free access to the courts of justice of the other, and they shall be permitted to prosecute suits for the recovery of their properties, the payment of their debts, and for obtaining satisfaction for the damages which they may have sustained , whether the persons whom they may sue be subjects or citizens of the country in which they may be found, or any other persons whatsoever, who may have taken refuge therein ; and the proceedings and sentences of the said courts shall be the same as if the contending parties had been subjects or citizens of the said country.
ARTICLE XXI.

Compensation In order to terminate all differences on account of the losses susto be made to tained by the citizens of the United States in consequence of their ves-

fcoitriizlelnesgaolfcUa.p.S. tures of vessels by Spanish subjects.

sels and cargoes having been taken by the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, during the late war between Spain and France, it is agreed that all such cases shall be referred to the final decision of commissioners to be appointed in the following manner. His Catholic Majesty

Commission.
ers to ascertain the same.

shall name one commissioner, and the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, shall appoint another, and the said two commissioners shall agree on the choice of a third, or if they cannot agree so, they shall each propose one person, and of the two names so proposed, one shall be drawn by lot in the presence of the two original commissioners, and the person whose name shall be so drawn , shall be the third commissioner : and the three commissioners so appointed, shall be sworn impartially to examine and

decide the claims in question, according to the merits of the several

cases, and to justice, equity , and the laws of nations. The said com-

missioners shall meet and sit at Philadelphia : and in the case of the

death, sickness, or necessary absence of any such commissioner, his

place shall be supplied in the same manner as he was first appointed , and the new commissioner shall take the same oaths, and do the same

duties. They shall receive all complaints and applications authorized

by this article, during eighteen months from the day on which they

shall assemble. They shall have power to examine all such persons as

come before them on oath or affirmation , touching the complaints in

question, and also to receive in evidence all written testimony, authen-

ticated in such manner as they shall think proper to require or admit.

The award of the said commissioners, or any two of them , shall be

final and conclusive, both as to the justice of the claim and the amount

of the sum to be paid to the claimants ; and his Catholic Majesty un-

dertakes to cause the same to be paid in specie , without deduction , at

such times and places, and under such conditions as shall be awarded by the said commissioners.

ARTICLE XXII.
The two high contracting parties, hopping that the good correspond ence and friendship which happily reigns between them , will be furthe.

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

151

venido en el presente tratrado, y probará la propiedad del buque, y despues de haber exhibido semejante pasaporte y documentos, se les dejará seguir libremente su viage, sin que les sea licito el molestarles ni
procurar de modo alguno darle caza, û obligarle à dejar el rumbo que seguía.
ART. XIX .
Se establecerán Consules reciprocamente con los privilegios y facultades que gozaren los de las naciones mas favorecidas en los puertos donde los tuvieren estas, ô les sea lícito el tenerlos.
ART. XX .
Se ha convenido igualmente que los habitantes de los territorios de una y otra parte respectivamente seran admitidos en los tribunales de
justicia de la otra parte, y les sera permitido el entablar sus pleytos para el recobro de sus propiedades, pago de sus deudas, y satisfaccion de los daños que hubieren recibido bien sean las personas contra las quales se quejasen subditos ô ciudadanos del pais en el que se hallen, ô bien sean qualesquiera otros sugetos que se hayan refugiado allí ; y los pleytos y sentencias de dichos tribunales seran las mismas que hubieran sido en el caso de que las partes litigantes fuesen súbditos ô ciudadanos del mismo pais.
ART. XXI.
A fin de concluir todas las disensiones sobre las perdidas que los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos hayan sufrido en sus buques y carga-
mentos apresados por los vasallos de S. M. Catolica durante la guerra que se acaba de finalizar entre España y Francia, se ha convenido que todos estos casos se determinarán finalm por comisarios que se nombrarán de esta manera : S. M. Catolica nombrará uno, y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos otro con consentimiento y aprobacion del Senado ; y estos dos comisarios nombrarán un tercero de comun acuerdo : pero si no pudiesen acordarse, cada uno nombrará una persona, y sus dos nombres puestos en suerte se sacarán en presencia de los dos comisarios, resultando por tercero aquel cuyo nombre hubiese salido el primero. Nombrados así estos tres comisarios, jurarán que exâminarán y decidírán con imparcialidad las quejas de que se trata, segun el merito de la diferencia de los casos, y segun dicten la justicia, equidad, y derecho de gentes. Dichos comisarios se juntarán y tendran sus sesiones en Philadelfia, y en caso de muerte enfermedad ô ausencia precisa se reemplazará su plaza de la misma manera que se eligió, y el nuevo comisario hará igual juramento y exercerá iguales funciones. En el termino de diez y ocho meses contados desde el dia en que se junten admitirán todas las quejas y reclamaciones autorizadas por este articulo. Asimismo tendran autoridad para exâminar baxo la sancion del juramento â todas las personas que ocurran ante ellos sobre puntos relativos à dichas quejas, y recibirán como evidente todo testimonio escrito que de tal manera sea autentico que ellos lo juzguen digno de pedirle ô admitirle. La decision de dichos comisarios, ô de dos de ellos sera final y concluyente, tanto por lo q toca à la justicia de la queja, como por lo que monte la suma que se deba satisfacer â los demandantes, y S. M. Catolica se obliga â hacer las pager en especie, sin rebaxa y en las épocas, lugares, y baxo las condiciones que se decidan por los comisarios.

ART. XXII . Esperando las dos altas partes contratantes que la buena correspondencia y amistad que reyna actualmente entre si se estrechará mas y

152

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

encreased by this treaty, and that it will contribute to augment their

prosperity and opulence, will in future give to their mutual commerce

all the extension and favour which the advantages of both countries

may require.

ciStpiaziennspoefrUm.itSs.
to deposit goods at New Or. leans .

And in consequence of the stipulations contained in the IV. article, his Catholic Majesty will permit the citizens of the United States, for the space of three years from this time, to deposit their merchandizes and effects in the port of New-Orleans, and to export them from thence without paying any other duty than a fair price for the hire of the

stores, and his Majesty promises either to continue this permission , if

he finds during that time that it is not prejudicial to the interests of Spain, or if he should not agree to continue it there, he will assign to

them, on another part of the banks of the Missisippi, an equivalent establishment.

ARTICLE XXIII.

The present treaty shall not be in force untill ratified by the contracting parties, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in six months from this time, or sooner if possible.

In witness whereof, we, the underwritten plenipotentiaries of his Catholic Majesty and of the United States of America, have signed this present treaty of friendship, limits, and navigation, and have thereunto affixed our seals respectively.

Done at San Lorenzo el Real, this seven and twenty day of October, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five.

THOMAS PINCKNEY ,

(L. S.)

EL PRINCIPE DE LA PAZ, (L. s.)

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1795.

153

mas con el presente tratado, y que contribuirá à aumentar su prosperidad y opulencia, concederán recíprocamente en lo sucesivo al comercio todas las ampliaciones ô fabores que exîgiese la utilidad de los dos paises.
Y desde luego à consequencia de lo estipulado en el artículo IV. permitira S. M. Catolica por espacio de tres años â los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos que depositen sus mercaderias y efectos en el puerto de Nueva-Orleans, y que las extraigan sin pagar mas derechos q un precio justo por el alquiler de los almacenes, ofreciendo S. M. continuar el termino de esta gracia, si se experimentase durante aquel tiempo que noes perjudicial à los intereses de la España, ô si no conviniese su continuacion en aquel puerto, proporcionará en otra parte de las orillas del Rio Misisipi un igual establecimiento.

ART. XXIII.
El presente tratado no tendrá efecto hasta que las partes contratantes le hayan ratificado ; y las ratificaciones se cambiarán en el término de seis meses, ô ántes si fuese posible contando desde este dia.

En fe de lo qual nosotros los infraescritos plenipotenciarios de S. M. Catolica y de los Estados Unidos de America , hemos firmado en virtud de nuestros plenos poderes este tratado de amistad , limites, y navegacion, y le hemos puesto nuestros sellos respectivos.

Hecho en San Lorenzo el Real, à veinte y siete de Octubre de mil setecientos noventa y cinco.

THOMAS PINCKNEY ,

L.

EL PRINCIPE DE LA PAZ , (L.

VOL. VIII.

20

TREATY OF PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP

Nov. 4 , 1796. Between the United States of America, and the Bey and Subjects of Tripoli, of Barbary. (a)

ARTICLE I.

Peace under the guarantee of the Dey of Algiers.

THERE is a firm and perpetual peace and friendship between the United States of America and the Bey and Subjects of Tripoli of Barbary , made by the free consent of both parties, and guaranteed by the Most Potent Dey and Regency of Algiers.

ARTICLE II.

Enemy's
goods to befree in ships belong. ing to the parties.

If any goods belonging to any nation with which either ofthe parties is at war, shall be loaded on board of vessels belonging to the other party, they shall pass free, and no attempt shall be made to take or detain them.
ARTICLE III.

Persons and
pmryo'pservteyssienlesnteo be free in case of capture .

If any Citizens, Subjects or Effects belonging to either party, shall be found on board a prize-vessel taken from an enemy by the other party, such Citizens or Subjects shall be set at liberty, and the effects restored to the owners.
ARTICLE IV.

Passports tobe given.

Proper passports are to be given to all vessels of both parties, by which they are to be known. And considering the distance between the two countries, eighteen months from the date of this treaty shall be allowed for procuring such passports. During this interval, the other papers belonging to such vessels shall be sufficient for their protection.

ARTICLE V.

Condemnation
oafndabpirllizoef-vseasl-e sel to be available as passport for one year.

A Citizen or Subject of either party having bought a prize-vessel

condemned by the party or by any other nation, the certificate of con-

demnation and bill of sale shall be a sufficient passport for such vessel

for one year ; this being a reasonable time for her to procure a proper

passport.

ARTICLE VI

Vessels putting Vessels of either party putting into the ports of the other, and hav-

ipanrttoipeosrftosropfrtoh-e ing need of provisions or other supplies, they shall be furnished at the visions or re- market price. And if any such vessel shall so put in from a disaster at

pairs.

sea, and have occasion to repair, she shall be at liberty to land and re-

imbark her cargo, without paying any duties. But in no case shall she

be compelled to land her cargo.

Shipwrecks.

ARTICLE VII.
Should a vessel of either party be cast on the shore of the other, all proper assistance shall be given to her and her people-No pillage shall be allowed ; the property shall remain at the disposition of the owners, and the crew protected and succoured till they can be sent to their country.

(a) The treaties between the United States and Tripoli have been : The treaty of November 4, 1796. The treaty of June 4, 1805 , post , 214.
(154)

TREATY WITH TRIPOLI. 1796.

155

ARTICLE VIII.
If a vessel of either party should be attacked by an enemy within gun Neutrality of shot of the forts of the other, she shall be defended as much as possible. ports. If she be in port, she shall not be seized or attacked , when it is in the power of the other party to protect her ; and when she proceeds to sea, no enemy shall be allowed to pursue her from the same port within twenty-four hours after her departure.
ARTICLE IX.
The commerce between the United States and Tripoli- the protec- Commerce, tion to be given to merchants, masters of vessels and seamen --the &c. to be onthe reciprocal right of establishing consuls in each country, and the fmooosttinfgaovfoutrheed privileges, immunities, and jurisdictions to be enjoyed by such consuls, nations. are declared to be on the same footing with those of the most favoured nations respectively.
ARTICLE X.
The money and presents demanded by the Bey of Tripoli, as a full Acknowledgand satisfactory consideration on his part, and on the part of his sub- ment of the rejects, for this treaty of perpetual peace and friendship, are acknowledged ceipt of the
price of peace. to have been received by him previous to his signing the same, according to a receipt which is hereto annexed ; except such part as is promised on the part of the United States, to be delivered and paid by them on the arrival of their consul in Tripoli, of which part a notice is likewise hereto annexed.And no pretence of any periodical tribute or farther payment is ever to be made by either party.
ARTICLE XI.
As the government of the United States of America is not in any Pretexts arissense founded on the Christian religion-as it has in itself no character ing from reliof emnity against the laws, religion or tranquillity of Musselmen-and gniootutsooipnitneirornuspt as the said states never have entered into any war or act of hostility the state of haragainst any Mahometan nation, it is declared by the parties, that no nmaotnioynso.f the two pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption ofthe harmony existing between the two countries.

ARTICLE XII.

In case of any dispute arising from the violation of any of the articles of this treaty, no appeal shall be made to arms, nor shall war be declared on any pretext whatever. But if the consul residing at the place where the dispute shall happen, shall not be able to settle the same, an amicable reference shall be made to the mutual friend of the parties, the Dey of Algiers, the parties hereby engaging to abide by his decision. And

Disputes between the partciiedsetdobbyerdeefe-rence to the Dey of Algiers

he by virtue of his signature to this treaty, engages for himself and his successors, to declare the justice of the case according to the true interpretation of the treaty , and to use all the means in his power to enforce the observance of the same.

Signed and Sealed at Tripoli of Barbary , the 3d day of Jumad, in the year of the Higera, 1211 , corresponding with the 4th day of November, 1796, by

JUSSUF BASHAW MAHOMET, Bey. MAMET , Treasurer. AMET, Minister of Marine. AMET, Chamberlain. ALLY, Chief of the Divan. SOLIMAN KAYA .
GALIL, General of the Troops.

(L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S.) (L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S.) (L. S.)

156

TREATY WITH TRIPOLI. 1796.

MAHOMET, Cmdt. ofthe City. MAMET, Secretary.

(L. S.) (L. S.)

Signed and sealed at Algiers, the 4th day of Argil, 1211 , correspond ing with the 3d day of January, 1797, by HASSAN BASHAW, Dey. (L. S.)

And by the Agent Plenipotentiary of the United States of America,

JOEL BARLOW.

(L. S.)

Certificates of
the copy, by Joel Barlow.

I, Joel Barlow, Agent and Consul General of the United States of America, for the City and Kingdom of Algiers, certify and attest that the foregoing is a true copy of the treaty, concluded between the said United States and the Bey and Subjects of Tripoli of Barbary, of which the original is to be transmitted by me to the Minister of the said United States, in Lisbon.

In testimony whereof, I sign these presents with my hand , and affix thereto the seal of the Consulate of the United States, at Algiers, this 4th day of January, 1797.
JOEL BARLOW.. (L. S.)

To all to whom these presents shall come or be made known :

Confirmation

WHEREAS the under-written David Humphreys, hath been duly ap-

oDfavtihed tHrueamt-y by pointed Commissioner Plenipotentiary, by Letters Patent under the

phreys.

signature of the President and seal of the United States of America,

dated the 30th of March, 1795, for negociating and concluding a treaty

of peace with the most illustrious the Bashaw, Lords and Governors of

the City and Kingdom of Tripoli : WHEREAS, by a writing under his

hand and seal, dated the 10th of February, 1796, he did, ( in conformity

to the authority committed me therefor) constitute and appoint Joel

Barlow, and Joseph Donaldson, Junior, agents, jointly and separately in the business aforesaid : WHEREAS the annexed Treaty of Peace and

Friendship, was agreed upon, signed and sealed at Tripoli of Barbary, on the 4th of November, 1796, in virtue of the powers aforesaid, and

guaranteed by the Most Potent Dey and Regency of Algiers : AND WHEREAS the same was certified at Algiers on the 3d of January,

1797, with the signature and seal of Hassan Bashaw, Dey, and of Joel Barlow, one of the agents aforesaid, in the absence of the other.

Now, know ye, that I, David Humphreys, commissioner plenipoten-

tiary aforesaid, do approve and conclude the said treaty, and every article and clause therein contained, reserving the same nevertheless for the final ratification of the President of the United States of Ame-

rica, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States.

In testimony whereof, I have signed the same with my name and seal, at the city of Lisbon, this 10th of February , 1797.
DAVID HUMPHREYS. (L. S.)

TREATY OF PEACE AND FRIENDSHIP

Between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Tunis. (a)

God is infinite.

UNDER the auspices of the greatest, the most powerful of all the Princes of the Ottoman nation who reign upon the earth, our most glorious and most august Emperor, who commands the two lands and the two seas, Selim Kan, the victorious son of the Sultan Moustafa, whose

August, 1797. March 26, 1799.

realm may God prosper until the end of ages, the support of Kings, the Seal of Justice, the Emperor of Emperors.

The most illustrious and most magnificent Prince, Hamouda Pacha, Bey, who commands the Odgiak of Tunis, the abode of happiness , and the most honored Ibrahim Dey, and Soliman, aga of the Janissaries, and

chief of the Divan , and all the elders of the Odgiak ; and the most dis-

tinguished and honored President of the Congress of the United States of America, the most distinguished among those who profess the reli-

gion of the Messiah, of whom may the end be happy. We have concluded between us the present treaty of peace and friend-
ship, all the articles of which have been framed by the intervention of

Joseph Stephen Famin, French merchant residing at Tunis, chargé d'affaires of the United States of America ; which stipulations and con-

ditions are comprised in twenty-three articles, written and expressed in such manner as to leave no doubt of their contents, and in such way as not to be contravened.

Art . I. There shall be a perpetual and constant peace between the Peace and friendship.
United States of America, and the magnificent Pacha, Bey of Tunis ;
and also a permanent friendship , which shall more and more increase.

Art. II. If a vessel of war of the two nations shall make prize of an Restoration of

enemy's vessel, in which may be found effects, property and subjects of subjects and

the two contracting parties, the whole

shall be

restored :

the

Bey shall

goods found in an enemy's

restore the property and subjects of the United States, and the latter vessel.

shall make a reciprocal restoration ; it being understood on both sides,

that the just right to what is claimed shall be proved.

Art. III. Merchandise belonging to any nation which may be at war Enemies goods
with one of the contracting parties, and loaded on board of the vessels osenl boofatrhdeapavre-sof the other, shall pass without molestation , and without any attempt ties to be free. being made to capture or detain it.

Art. IV. On both sides sufficient passports shall be given to vessels, that they may be known and treated as friendly; and considering the distance between the two countries, a term of eighteen months is given, within which term respect shall be paid to the said passports, without requiring the congé or document ( which at Tunis is called testa) but after the said term the congé shall he presented.

Passports to be given.

Art. V. If the corsairs of Tunis shall meet at sea with ships of war of the United States, having under their escort merchant vessels of their

(a) The treaties between the United States and Tunis have been :

The treaty of August, 1797, and March 26 , 1799.

Altered articles of the treaty of 1797-1799 , February 24 , 1824, post, 298.



(157)

158

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1797.

Commander of a convoy to be believed upon
his word in order to exempt it from search and quarantine.
Nothing to be exacted for visits.

nation , they shall not be searched or molested ; and in such case the commanders shall be believed upon their word, to exempt their ships from being visited and to avoid quarantine : The American ships of war shall act in like manner towards merchant vessels escorted by the corsairs of Tunis.
Art. VI. If a Tunisian corsair shall meet with an American merchant vessel, and shall visit it with her boat, she shall not exact any thing, under pain of being severely punished : And in like manner if a vessel of war of the United States shall meet with a Tunisian merchant ves-

Fugitive slaves and prisoners.

sel , she shall observe the same rule. In case a slave shall take refuge on board of an American vessel of war, the consul shall be required to cause him to be restored ; and if any of their prisoners shall escape on board of the Tunisian vessels, they shall be restored : But if any slave shall take refuge in any American merchant vessel , and it shall be proved that the vessel has departed with the said slave, then he shall be returned, or his ransom shall be paid .

Prize vessels
purchased at Tunis, how to obtain tempora-
ry passports.

Art. VII . An American citizen having purchased a prize-vessel from our Odgiak, may sail with our passport, which we will deliver for the term of one year ; by force of which our corsairs which may meet with her shall respect her ; the consul on his part shall furnish her with a bill of sale ; and considering the distance of the two countries, this term shall suffice to obtain a passport in form : But after the expiration of this term, if our corsairs shall meet with her without the passport of the United States, she shall be stopped and declared good prize, as well the vessel as the cargo and crew.

Hospitality to be granted to vessels entering the ports ofthe parties.

Art. VIII. If a vessel of one of the contracting parties shall be obliged to enter into a port of the other, and may have need of provisions and other articles, they shall be granted to her without any difficulty, at the price-current at the place ; and if such a vessel shall have suffered at sea, and shall have need of repairs, she shall be at liberty to unload, and re-load her cargo without being obliged to pay any duty; and the captain shall only be obliged to pay the wages of those whom he shall have employed in loading and unloading the merchandise.

Assistance to
be granted to wrecked vessels.

Art. IX. If by accident and by the permission of God, a vessel of one of the contracting parties shall be cast by tempest upon the coasts of the other, and shall be wrecked , or otherwise damaged, the commandant of the place shall render all possible assistance for its preservation, without allowing any person to make any opposition ; and the proprietor of the effects shall pay the costs of salvage to those who may have been employed.

Neutrality of ports to be enforced.
Salutes.

Art. X. In case a vessel of one of the contracting parties shall be attacked by an enemy under the cannon of the forts of the other party, she shall be defended and protected as much as possible ; and when she shall set sail, no enemy shall be permitted to pursue her from the same port, or any other neighboring port, for forty-eight hours after her departure.
Art. XI. When a vessel of war of the United States of America shall enter the port of Tunis , and the consul shall request that the castle may salute her, the number of guns shall be fired which he may request and if the said consul does not want a salute, there shall be no question about it.
But in case he shall desire the salute , and the number of guns shall be fired which he may have requested, they shall be counted and returned by the vessel in as many barrels of cannon powder.
The same shall be done with respect to the Tunisian corsairs when they shall enter any port of the Unit 1 States.

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1797.

159

Art. XII. When citizens of the United States shall come within the
dependencies of Tunis, to carry on commerce there, the same respect shall be paid to them which the merchants of other nations enjoy ; and if they wish to establish themselves within our ports, no opposition shall be made thereto ; and they shall be free to avail themselves of such interpreters as they may judge necessary, without any obstruction , in con-

Privileges of merchants.

formity with the usages of other nations ; and if a Tunisian subject shall go to establish himself within the dependencies of the United States, he shall be treated in like manner.
If any Tunisian subject shall freight an American vessel and load

Tunisian sub.

her with merchandise, and shall afterwards want to unlade or ship them jaenctAmferreiigchatinng on board of another vessel, we will not permit him, until the matter is vessel, & c. determined by a reference of merchants, who shall decide upon the case ; and after the decision , the determination shall be conformed to.

No captain shall be detained in port against his consent, except when Embargoes.

our ports are shut for the vessels of all other nations, which may take

place with respect to merchant vessels, but not to those of war. The subjects of the two contracting powers shall be under the pro- Protection of

tection of the Prince, and under the jurisdiction of the Chief of the tthhee psaurbtjieecst.s of place where they may be, and no other person shall have authority over
them. Ifthe commandant of the place does not conduct himself agree-

ably to justice, a representation of it shall be made to us. In case the government shall have need of an American merchant
vessel, it shall cause it to be freighted , and then a suitable freight shall be paid to the captain agreeably to the intention of the government, and the captain shall not refuse it.

Government
of Tunis may freight American vessels.

Art. XIII. If among the crews of merchant vessels of the United States, there shall be found subjects of our enemies, they shall not be made slaves, on condition that they do not exceed a third of the crew ;
and when they do exceed a third , they shall be made slaves : The present article only concerns the sailors, and not the passengers, who shall not be in any manner molested.

Enemy's subjtehcetsveosnseblosaorfd the parties,-in what case they sslhaalvlesb.e made

Art. XIV. A Tunisian merchant, who may go to America with a Duties to be vessel of any nation soever, loaded with merchandise which is the pro- reciproca.ly duction of the kingdom of Tunis, shall pay duty ( small as it is) like paid. the merchants of other nations ; and the American merchants shall equally pay for the merchandise of their country, which they may bring to Tunis under their flag, the same duty as the Tunisians pay in America.

But if an American merchant, or a merchant of any other nation, shall bring American merchandise under any other flag, he shall pay six per cent. duty : In like manner, if a foreign merchant shall bring the merchandise of his country under the American flag, he shall also pay six per cent.

Art. XV. It shall be free for the citizens of the United States to
carry on what commerce they please in the kingdom of Tunis, without any opposition, and they shall be treated like the merchants of other
nations ; but they shall not carry on commerce in wine, nor in prohibited articles : And if any one shall be detected in a contraband trade,

Liberty of
commerce , con-
traband excepted.

he shall be punished according to the laws of the country. The com-

mandants of ports and castles shall take care, that the captains and

sailors shall not load prohibited articles ; but if this should happen, those who shall not have contributed to the smuggling shall not be molested

nor searched, no more than shall the vessel and cargo ; but only the

offender, who shall be demanded to be punished. No captain shall be Privileges of
obliged to receive merchandise on board his vessel , nor to unlade the masters of ves sels.
same against his will, until the freight shall be paid.

160

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1797.

Duty ofanchorage .

Art. XVI. The merchant vessels of the United States which shall
cast anchor in the road of the Gouletta, or any other port of the kingdom of Tunis, shall be obliged to pay the same anchorage for entry and departure which French vessels pay, to wit : Seventeen piasters and a half, money of Tunis, for entry, if they import merchandise ; and the same for departure, if they take away a cargo ; but they shall not be obliged to pay anchorage if they arrive in ballast, and depart in the same manner.

Right ofhaving Art. XVII. Each of the contracting parties shall be at liberty to a Consul, and establish a consul in the dependencies of the other ; and if such consul his privileges.
does not act in conformity with the usages of the country, like others,
the government of the place shall inform his government of it, to the
end that he may be changed and replaced ; but he shall enjoy, as well for himself as his family and suite, the protection of the government :
And he may import for his own use all his provisions and furniture
without paying any duty ; and if he shall import merchandise (which it shall be lawful for him to do) he shall pay duty for it.

No responsibility for subjects contracting debts, & c.

Art. XVIII. If the subjects or citizens of either of the contracting parties, being within the possessions of the other, contract debts, or enter into obligations, neither the consul nor the nation, nor any subjects or citizens thereof shall be in any manner responsible, except they or the consul shall have previously become bound in writing : And without this obligation in writing, they cannot be called upon for indemnity or satisfaction.

Administration of the effects of a decedent.

Art. XIX . In case of a citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties dying within the possesions of the other, the consul or the vekil
shall take possession of his effects, (if he does not leave a will ) of which he shall make an inventory ; and the government of the place shall have nothing to do therewith. And if there shall be no consul , the effects

shall be deposited in the hands of a confidential person of the place, taking an inventory of the whole, that they may eventually be delivered to those to whom they of right belong.

Consul's juris.
diction over his countrymen .

Art. XX. The consul shall be the judge in all disputes between his fellow citizens or subjects, as also between all other persons who may be immediately under his protection ; and in all cases wherein he shall require the assistance of the government where he resides to sanction his decisions, it shall be granted to him.

Punishment or
personal assaults, committed by the sub-
jects of one party upon those ofthe other.
Trial of disputes on civil matters between them.

Art. XXI. If a citizen or subject of one of the parties shall kill, wound, or strike a citizen or subject of the other, justice shall be done according to the laws of the country where the offence shall be committed : The consul shall be present at the trial ; but if any offender shall escape, the consul shall be in no manner responsible for it.
Art. XXII. If a dispute or law-suit on commercial or other civil matters shall happen , the trial shall be had in the presence of the con sul , or of a confidential person of his choice, who shall represent him, and endeavor to accommodate the difference which may have happened between the citizens or subjects of the two nations.

In case of national differences, accommo. dation to be at-
tempted before recourse is had to arms.

Art. XXIII. If any difference or dispute shall take place concerning the infraction of any article of the present treaty on either side, peace and good harmony shall not be interrupted , until a friendly application shall have been made for satisfaction ; and resort shall not be had to arms therefor, except where such application shall have been rejected ; and if war be then declared, the term of one year shall be allowed to the citizens or subjects of the contracting parties to arrange their affairs, and to withdraw themselves with their property.

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1797.

161

The agreements and terms above concluded by the two contracting parties, shall be punctually observed with the will of the Most High : And for the maintenance and exact observance of the said agreements, we have caused their contents to be here transcribed, in the present
month of Rebia Elul, of the Hegira one thousand two hundred and twelve, corresponding with the month of August of the Christian year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven.

The Aga SOLIMAN'S Signature and
(Seal. )

IBRAHIM DEY'S Signature and
(Seal.)

The Bey's Signature
and
(Seal.)

WHEREAS the President of the United States of America, by his letters patent, under his signature and the seal of State, dated the eighteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred
(SEAL. ) and ninety-eight, vested Richard O'Brien , William Eaton, and James Leander Cathcart, or any two of them in the absence of
the third, with full powers to confer, negotiate and conclude with the Bey and Regency of Tunis, on certain alterations in the treaty between the United States and the government of Tunis, concluded by the intervention of Joseph Etienne Famin , on behalf of the United States, in the month of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven , We, the underwritten William Eaton, and James Leander Cathcart (Richard O'Brien being absent) have concluded on and entered, in the foregoing treaty, certain alterations in the eleventh, twelfth, and four teenth articles, and do agree to said treaty with said alterations, reserving the same nevertheless for the final ratification of the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

In testimony whereof we annex our names and the consular seal of the United States. Done in Tunis, the twenty-sixth day of March, in the year of the Christian era one thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine, and of American independence the twenty-third.

(Signed)

WILLIAM EATON, JAMES LEANDER CATHCART.

VOL. VIII. 21

02

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE,

Between his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States of America. (a)

July 11, 1799.
Ratifications exchanged at Berlin, June 22, 1800.
Proclamation bdeyntt,heNoPvr.es4i-, 1800.

His Majesty the King of Prussia, and the United States of America, desiring to maintain upon a stable and permanent footing, the connections of good understanding, which have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective States , and for this purpose to renew the Treaty of Amity and Commerce concluded between the two Powers, at the Hague, the 10th of September 1785, for the term of ten years, his Prussian Majesty has nominated and constituted as his Plenipotentiaries, the Count Charles William de Finkenstein , his Minister of State, of War, and of the Cabinet, Knight of the orders of the black Eagle and of the red Eagle, and commander of that of St. John of Jerusalem, the Baron Philip Charles d'Alvensleben, his Minister of State, of War, and of the Cabinet, Knight of the orders of the black Eagle and ofthe red Eagle, and of that of St. John of Jerusalem, and the Count Christian Henry Curt de Haugwitz, his Minister of State, of War, and of the Cabinet, Knight of the orders of the black Eagle and of the red Eagle ; and the President of the United States has furnished with their full powers, John Quincy Adams, a citizen of the United States, and their Minister Plenipotentiary at the court of his Prussian Majesty ; which Plenipotentiaries, after having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, have concluded , settled, and signed the following articles :
ARTICLE I.

Peace and
friendship established.

There shall be in future, as there has been hitherto, a firm, inviolable, and universal Peace, and a sincere Friendship , between his Majesty the King of Prussia, his heirs, successors, and subjects, on the one part, and the United States of America, and their citizens on the other, without exception of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

Privileges of Prussian sub-
jects trading to the U. S

The subjects of his Majesty, the King of Prussia may frequent all the coasts and countries of the United States of America, and reside and trade there, in all sorts of produce, manufactures and merchandize, and shall pay there no other or greater duties, charges or fees whatsoever, than the most favoured nations are or shall be obliged to pay.
They shall also enjoy , in navigation and commerce, all the rights, privileges and exemptions, which the most favoured nation does or shall enjoy, submitting themselves nevertheless to the established laws and usages, to which are submitted the citizens of the United States, and the most favoured nations.

Commercial privileges.

ARTICLE III .
In like manner the citizens of the United States of America may frequent all the coasts and countries of his Majesty the King of Prussia, and reside and trade there, in all sorts of produce, manufactures and merchandize, and shall pay, in the dominions of his said Majesty, no other or greater duties, charges or fees whatsoever, than the most favoured nation is or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all

(a) See note to page 84 , ante. (362)

TRAITÉ D'AMITIÉ ET DE COMMERCE,
Entre sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique.
Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique, désirant d'entretenir sur un pied stable et permanent les liaisons de bonne intelligence, qui ont si heureusement subsisté jus'quici , entre leurs Etats respectifs, et de renouveller pour cet effet le Traité d'Amitié et de Commerce, qui a été conclû entre les deux puissances à la Haye le 10me Septembre 1785, pour le terme de dix années, sa Majesté Prussienne a nommé et constitué ses Plenipotentiaires, le Sieur Charles Guillaume, Comte de Finkenstein , son Ministre d'etat de guerre, et de cabinet , chevalier des ordres de l'aigle-noir, et de l'aigle rouge, et commandeur de celui de St. Jean de Jérusalem : le Sieur Philippe-Charles, Baron d'Alvensleben, son ministre d'etat, de guerre, et de cabinet, chevalier des ordres de l'aigle-noir, et de l'aigle-rouge, et de celui de St. Jean de Jérusalem, et le Sieur Chretien-Henri-Curce-Comte de Haugwitz, son ministre d'etat, de guerre, et de cabinet, chevalier des ordres de l'aigle-noir, et de l'aigle rouge ; et le Président des Etats Unis a muni de leur pleinpouvoir Jean-Quincy Adams, citoyen des Etats Unis, et leur ministre plenipotentiaire à la Cour de sa Majesté Prussienne ; lesquels plénipotentiaires après avoir échangés leurs pleinpouvois trouvés en bonne et düe forme, ont conclû, arrêté et signé les Articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
IL y aura dans la suite, comme par le passé, une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle, et une amitié sincère entre sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, ses héritiers , successeurs, et sujets, d'une part, et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique, et leurs citoyens, d'autre part, sans exception de personnes ou de lieux .
ARTICLE II.
Les sujets de sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse pourront fréquenter toutes les côtes et les pays des Etats Unis de l'Amérique, y résider et trafiquer en toutes sortes de productions, manufactures et marchandises, et n'y payeront d'autres ni de plus forts impôts, charges, ou droits, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont ou seront obligées de payer. Ils jouiront aussi dans la navigation, et le commerce, de tous les droits, privilèges, et exemptions dont jouit ou jouira la nation la plus favorisée, se soumettant néanmoins aux loix et usages établis, auxquels sont soumis les citoyens des Etats Unis, et les nations les plus favorisées.
ARTICLE III. Pareillement les citoyens des Etats Unis de l'Amérique pourront frequenter toutes les côtes et tous les pays de sa Magesté le roi de Prusse, y résider et trafiquer en toutes sortes de productions, manufactures et marchandises, et ne payeront d'autres ni de plus forts impôts, charges ou droits, dans les domaines de sa dite Majesté, que ceux que la nation la plus favorisée est ou sera obligée de payer, et ils jouïront de tous les
(163)

164

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

Commercial privileges.

the rights, privileges and exemptions, in navigation and commerce, which the most favoured nation does or shall enjoy ; submitting themselves nevertheless to the established laws and usages, to which are submitted the subjects of his Majesty the King of Prussia, and the subjects and citizens of the most favoured nations.
ARTICLE IV.
More especially, each party shall have a right to carry their own produce, manufactures and merchandize, in their own or any other vessels, to any parts of the dominions of the other, where it shall be lawful for all the subjects and citizens of that other freely to purchase them, and thence to take the produce, manufactures and merchandize of the other, which all the said citizens or subjects shall in like manner be free to sell to them, paying in both cases, such duties, charges, and fees only, as are or shall be paid, by the most favored nation. Nevertheless, his Majesty the King of Prussia and the United States, respectively, reserve to themselves the right, where any nation restrains the transportation of merchandize to the vessells of the country of which it is the growth or manufacture, to establish against such nation retaliating regulations ; and also the right to prohibit in their respective countries the importation and exportation of all merchandize whatsoever, when reasons of state shall require it. In this case the subjects or citizens of either of the contracting parties shall not import or export the merchandize prohibited by the other. But if one of the contracting parties permits any other nation to import or export the same merchandize, the citizens or subjects of the other shall immediately enjoy the same liberty.

ARTICLE V.
The merchants, commanders of vessels, or other subjects or citizens. of either party, shall not, within the ports or jurisdiction of the other, be forced to unload any sort of merchandise into any other vessel , nor to receive them into their own , nor to wait for their being loaded longer than they please.
ARTICLE VI.
That the vessels of either party, loading within the ports or jurisdiction of the other, may not be uselessly harassed, or detained , it is agreed , that all examinations of goods, required by the laws, shall be made before they are laden on board the vessel , and that there shall be no examination after ; nor shall the vessel be searched at any time, unless articles shall have been laden therein clandestinely and illegally, in which case the person by whose order they were carried on board, or who carried them without order, shall be liable to the laws of the land in which he is, but no other person shall be molested, nor shall any other goods, nor the vessel , be seized or detained for that cause.

ARTICLE VII.

Protection of property within tohfeejaucrhispdaircttiyo.n

Each party shall endeavour by all the means in their power to protect and defend all vessels and other effects, belonging to the citizens or subjects of the other, which shall be within the extent of their jurisdiction by sea or by land ; and shall use all their efforts to recover, and cause to be restored to the right owners, their vessels and effects, which shall be taken from them within the extent of their said jurisdiction

ARTICLE VIII. The vessels of the subjects or citizens of either party, coming on any

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

165

droits, privilèges et exemptions dans la navigation et le commerce, dont jouit ou jouïra la nation la plus favorisée ; se soumettant néanmoins aux loix et usages établis, auxquels sont soumis les sujets de sa Ma-
jesté le Roi de Prusse et les sujets et citoyens des nations les plus favorisées.

ARTICLE IV.

En particulier chacune des deux nations aura le droit d'importer ses propres productions, manufactures, et marchandises à bord de ses propres bâtimens, ou de tel autre, dans toutes les parties des domaines de l'autre, où il sera permis à tous les sujets et citoyens de l'autre nation de les acheter librement, comme aussi d'y charger les productions, manufactures et marchandises de l'autre, que tous les dits sujets ou citoyens auront la liberté de leur vendre, en payant dans l'un et l'autre cas tels impôts, droits, et charges seulement, qui sont ou seront payés par la nation la plus favorisée. Cependant sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique se reservent le droit, au cas que quelque nation restreigne le transport des marchandises aux vaisseaux des pays dont elles sont la production, ou la manufacture, d'établir envers cette nation des règlemens réciproques, se réservant de plus le droit de prohiber dans leurs pays respectifs l'importation ou l'exportation de toute marchandise quelconque, dès que la raison d'état l'éxige. En ce cas les sujets ou citoyens d'une des parties contractantes ne pourront importer ni exporter les marchandises prohibées par l'autre. Mais si

l'une des parties contractantes permet à quelque autre nation d'importer ou d'exporter ces mêmes marchandises, les citoyens ou sujets de l'autre partie contractante jouïront tout aussitôt d'une liberté pareille.

ARTICLE V.

Les marchands, commandans de vaisseaux, et autre sujets ou cito-

yens de chacune des deux nations, ne seront pas forcés dans les ports

ou dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, de decharger aucunes sortes de marchandises dans d'autres vaisseaux, ni de les recevoir à bord de leurs propres

navires, ni d'attendre leur chargement, plus longtems qu'il ne leur

plaira.

ARTICLE VI.

Pour éviter que les vaisseaux de l'une des deux parties contractantes ne soyent inutilement molestés, ou détenus, dans les ports ou sous la jurisdiction de l'autre, il a été convenu , que la visite des marchandises, ordonnée par les loix, se fera avant qu'elles ne soyent chargées sur le navire, et qu'ensuite elles ne seront plus assujetties à aucune visite. Et en général il ne se fera point de recherche à bord du vaisseau , à moins qu'on n'y ait chargé clandestinement et illégalement des marchandises prohibées. Dans ce cas celui par l'ordre duquel elles ont été portées à bord, ou celui qui les y a portées sans ordres, sera soumis aux lois du pays où il se trouve, sans que le reste de l'equipage soit molesté, ni les autres marchandises ou le vaisseau saisis ou detenus par cette raison.
ARTICLE VII.
Chacune des deux parties contractantes tâchera, par tous les moyens qui seront en son pouvoir, de protéger, et de défendre tous les vaisseaux, et autres effets appartenant aux citoyens ou sujets de l'autre, et se trouvant dans l'étendue de sa jurisdiction par mer ou par terre, et elle employera tous ses efforts pour recouvrer, et faire restituer aux propriétaires légitimes, les vaisseaux et effets, qui leur auront été enlevés dans l'étendue de sa dite jurisdiction.

ARTICLE VIII.

Les vaisseaux des sujets ou citoyens d'une des deux parties contrac-

166

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

Vessels com- coast, belonging to the other, but not willing to enter into port, or who

ing on the coast or entering a port without
wishing to break bulk.

entering into port are not willing to unload their cargoes or break bulk, shall have liberty to depart, and to pursue their voyage, without molestation, and without being obliged to render account of their cargo, or to pay any duties, charges or fees whatsoever, except those established

for vessels entered into port, and appropriated to the maintenance of the port itself, or of other establishments for the safety and convenience of

navigators, which duties, charges, and fees, shall be the same, and shall

be paid on the same footing, as in the case of subjects or citizens of the

country, where they are established.

ARTICLE IX.

Shipwrecks.

When any vessel of either party shall be wrecked, foundered, or otherwise damaged, on the coasts or within the dominions of the other, their respective citizens or subjects shall receive, as well for themselves as for their vessels and effects, the same assistance, which would be due to the inhabitants of the country where the damage happens, and shall pay the same charges and dues only as the said inhabitants would be
subject to pay in a like case ; and if the operations of repair shall require that the whole or any part of the cargo be unladed, they shall pay no duties, charges or fees on the part, which they shall relade and carry away. The ancient and barbarous right to wrecks of the sea shall be entirely abolished with respect to the subjects or citizens of the two contracting parties.

ARTICLE X.

Alienation of personal estate.
Real estate within the do. minions of one party falling upon the subjects of the other.

The citizens or subjects of each party shall have power to dispose of
their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by testament, donation, or otherwise, and their representatives, being subjects or citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament, or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will , paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country, wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases. And in case of the absence of the representative, such care shall be taken of the said goods, as would be taken of the goods of a native in like case, untill the lawfull owner may take measures for receiving them. And if question should arise among several claimants, to which of them the said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally bythe laws and judges of the land, wherein the said goods are. And where, on the death of any person, holding real estate, within the territories of the one party, such real estate would , by the laws of the land, descend on a citizen or subject of the other, were he not disqualified by alienage, such subject shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell the same, and to withdraw the proceeds, without molestation, and exempt from all rights of detraction on the part of the government of the respective States. But this article shall not derogate in any manner from the force of the laws already published , or hereafter to be published, by his Majesty the King of Prussia, to prevent the emigration of his subjects.

Freedom of conscience , worship, & .

ARTICLE XI.
The most perfect freedom of conscience and of worship, is granted to the citizens or subjects of either party, within the jurisdiction of the other, and no person shall be molested in that respect, for any cause other than an insult on the religion of others. Moreover, when the subjects or citizens of the one party, shall die within the jurisdiction of the other, their bodies shall be buried in the usual burying grounds, or

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

167

tantes, arrivant sur une côte appartenant à l'autre, mais n'ayant pas dessein d'entrer au port, ou , qui, en y entrant, ne voudroient pas décharger leurs cargaisons, ou rompre leur charge, aurons la liberté de repartir, et de poursuivre leur route sans empêchement, et sans être obligés de rendre compte de leur cargaison, ni de payer aucuns impôts, charges, ou droits quelconques, excepté ceux établis sur les vaisseaux une fois entrés dans le port, et destinés a l'entretien du port même, ou à d'autres établissemens, qui ont pour but la surêté et la commodité des navigateurs ; lesquels droits, charges et impôts seront les mêmes, et se payeront sur le même pied qu'ils sont acquités par les sujets ou citoyens de l'état où ils sont établis.
ARTICLE IX.
Au cas que quelque vaisseau appartenant à l'une des deux parties contractantes auroit fait naufrage échoué ou souffert quelque autre dommage, sur les côtes ou sous la domination de l'autre, les sujets ou citoyens respectifs recevront tant pour eux, que pour leurs vaisseaux et effets, la même assistance, qui auroit été fournie aux habitans du pays où l'accident arrive, et ils payeront seulement les mêmes charges et droits auxquels les dits habitans auroient été assujettis en cas pareil. Et si la réparation du vaisseau exigeoit que la cargaison fût déchargée en tout ou en partie, ils ne payeront aucun impôt, charge, ou droit, de ce qui sera rembarqué et importé. L'ancien et barbare droit de naufrage sera entièrement aboli à l'egard des sujets ou citoyens des deux parties contractantes.
ARTICLE X.
Les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des parties contractantes auront, dans les etats de l'autre, la liberté de disposer de leurs biens personnels, soit par testament, donation , ou autrement, et leurs héritiers, etant sujets ou citoyens de l'autre partie contractante, succèderont à leurs biens, soit en vertu d'un testament, ou ab intestat, et ils pourront en prendre possession, soit en personne, soit par d'autres agissant en leur place, et en disposer à leur volonté, en ne payant d'autres droits, que ceux auxquels les habitans du pays, où la succession est devenu vacante, sont assujettis en pareille occurrence. Et en cas d'absence des héretiers, on prendra provisoirement des biens qui leur sont échus les mêmes soins , qu'on auroit pris en pareille occasion des biens des natifs du pays, jusqu'à ce que le propriétaire légitime ait agréé des arrangemens pour recueillir l'héritage. S'il s'éleve des contestations entre différens prétendans ayant droit à la succession , elles seront décidées en dernier ressort selon es loix et par les juges du pays où la succession est vacante. Et si par la morte de quelque personne, possédant des biens-fonds sur le territoire de l'une des parties contractantes, ces biens-fonds venoient à passer, selon les loix du pays, à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie ; celui-ci, si, par sa qualité d'etranger, il est inhabile de les posséder, obtiendra un délai convenable pour les vendre, et pour en retirer le provenu sans obstacle, et exempt de tout droit de retenue de la part du gouvernement des etats respectifs. Mais cet article ne dérogera en aucune manière à la force des lois qui ont déja été publiées, ou qui le seront dans la suite par sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse pour prévenir l'émigration de ses sujets.
ARTICLE XI.
Il sera accordé la plus parfaite liberté de conscience et de culte aux citoyens et sujets de chaque partie contractante dans les etats de l'autre, et personne ne sera molesté à cet égard pour quelque cause que ce soit, si ce n'est pour insulte faite à la réligion de l'autre. De plus si des sujets et citoyens de l'une des parties contractantes venoient à mourir dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, leurs corps seront enterrés dans les

168

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

other decent and suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

ARTICLE XII.

Relative to the Experience having proved, that the principle adopted in the twelfth

principle of free ships mak.

article of the treaty of 1785, according to which free ships make free

ing free goods, goods, has not been sufficiently respected during the two last wars, and

especially in that which still continues, the two contracting parties pro-

pose, after the return of a general peace, to agree either separately

between themselves, or jointly with other powers alike interested, to

concert with the great maritime powers of Europe, such arrangements

and such permanent principles, as may serve to consolidate the liberty

and the safety of the neutral navigation and commerce in future wars.

And if in the interval, either of the contracting parties should be

engaged in a war, to which the other should remain neutral, the ships

of war and privateers of the belligerent power shall conduct themselves towards the merchant vessels of the neutral power, as favourably as the

course of the war then existing may permit, observing the principles and rules of the law of nations, generally acknowleged.

ARTICLE XIII.

Of contraband.

And in the same case of one of the contracting parties, being engaged in war, with any other power, to prevent all the difficulties and misunderstandings, that usually arise respecting merchandize of contraband, such as arms, ammunition and military stores of every kind, no such articles carried in the vessels, or by the subjects or citizens of either party, to the enemies of the other, shall be deemed contraband, so as to induce confiscation or condemnation and a loss of property to individuals. Nevertheless, it shall be lawful to stop such vessels and articles, and to detain them for such length of time, as the captors may think necessary to prevent the inconvenience or damage, that might ensue from their proceeding, paying however a reasonable compensation for the loss such arrest shall occasion to the proprietors ; and it shall further be allowed to use in the service of the captors, the whole or any part of the military stores so detained, paying the owners the full value of the same, to be ascertained by the current price at the place of its destination. But in the case supposed of a vessel stopped for articles of contraband, if the master of the vessel stopped will deliver out the goods supposed to be of contraband nature, he shall be admitted to do it, and the vessel shall not in that case be carried into any port, nor further detained , but shall be allowed to proceed on her voyage.

All cannons, mortars, fire arms, pistols, bombs, grenades, bullets, balls, muskets, flints, matches, powder, salt-petre, sulphur, cuirasses, pikes, swords, belts, cartouch boxes, saddles and bridles, beyond the quantity necessary for the use of the ship, or beyond that which every
man serving on board the vessel, or passenger, ought to have ; and in general whatever is comprized under the denomination of arms and military stores, of what description soever, shall be deemed objects of contraband.

Documents to be carried by vessels in time of war.

ARTICLE XIV.
To ensure to the vessels of the two contracting parties the advantage of being readily and certainly known in time of war, it is agreed, that they shall be provided with the sea letters and documents hereafter specified :
1. A passport, expressing the name, the property and the burthen of

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

169

endroits où l'on a la coutume de faire les enterremens, ou dans tel autre
lieu décent et convenable, et ils seront protégés contre toute violence et trouble.
ARTICLE XII.

L'expérience ayant démontré, que le principe adopté dans l'Article douze du Traité de 1785, selon lequel les vaisseaux libres rendent aussi les marchandises libres, n'a pas été suffisamment respecté dans les deux dernières guerres, et nommément dans celle qui dure encore, les deux parties contractantes se réservent de s'entendre après le retour de la paix générale, soit séparément entr'elles, soit conjointement avec d'autres puissances co-intéressés pour concerter avec les grandes puissances maritimes de l'Europe, tels arrangemens et tels principes permanens, qui puissent servir à consolider la liberté et la sûreté de la navigation et du commerce neutres dans les guerres futures.
Et si pendant cet intervalle , l'une des parties contractantes se trouve engagée dans une guerre à laquelle l'autre reste neutre, les vaisseaux
de guerre et les armateurs de la puissance belligérante, se comporteront, à l'égard de bâtimens marchands de la puissance neutre, aussi favourablement que la raison de guerre, pour lors existante pourra le permettre, en observant les principes et les règles du droit des gens généralement reconnus.

ARTICLE XIII.

Dans le cas ou l'une des parties contractantes se trouveroit en guerre avec une autre puissance, il a été convenu , que pour prévenir les difficultés, et les discussions, qui surviennent ordinairement par rapport aux marchandises de contrabande, telles que armes et munitions de toute espèce, aucun de ces articles, chargés à bord des vaisseaux des sujets ou citoyens de l'une des parties, et destinés pour l'ennemi de l'autre, ne sera censé contrebande, au point d'impliquer confiscation ou condemnation, et d'entrainer la perte de la propriété des individus. Néanmoins il sera permis d'arrêter ces sortes de vaisseaux et effets, et de les retenir pendant tout le tems que le preneur croira nécessaire, pour prévenir les inconvéniens et les dommages qui pourroient en résulter autrement ; mais dans ce cas on accordera une compensation raisonnable pour les pertes, qui auront été occasionnées par la saisie. Et il sera permis en outre aux preneurs d'employer à leur service en tout ou en partie les munitions militaires détenues, en payant aux propriétaires la pleine valeur, à déterminer sur le prix qui aura cours à l'endroit de leur destination ; mais si dans le cas énoncé d'un vaisseau arrêté pour des articles de contrebande, le maitre du navire consent à délivrer les marchandises suspectes, il aura la liberté de le faire, et le navire ne sera plus amêné dans le port, ni détenu plus longtems , mais aura toute liberté de poursuivre sa route.
Seront censés objets de contrebande, les canons, mortiers, armes à feu, pistolets, bombes, grenades , boulets, bâles, fusils, pierres à feu , mêches, poudre, salpêtre, souffre, cuirasses, piques, épées, ceinturons, poches à cartouches, selles et brides, au délà de la quantité nécessaire pour l'usage du vaisseau, et au délà de celle que doit avoir chaque homme servant sur le vaisseau , ou passager, et en général tout ce qui est compris sous la dénomination d'armes et de munitions de guerre, de quelque espèce qu'elles puissent être.

ARTICLE XIV .

Pour assurer aux vaisseaux des deux parties contractantes, l'avantage

d'être promptement et sûrement reconnus en tems de guerre, on est

convenu qu'ils devront être munis des lettres de mer et documens

specifiés ci-après.

1. D'un passeport exprimant le nom, le propriétaire et le port du

VOL. VIII. 22

P

170

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

the vessel , as also the name and dwelling of the master, which passport shall be made out in good and due form, shall be renewed as often as the vessel shall return into port, and shall be exhibited whensoever required, as well in the open sea as in port. But if the vessel be under
convoy of one or more vessels of war, belonging to the neutral party, the simple declaration of the officer commanding the convoy, that the said vessel belongs to the party of which he is, shall be considered as establishing the fact, and shall relieve both parties from the trouble of further examination.
2. A charter-party ; that is to say, the contract passed for the freight of the whole vessel - or, the bills of lading given for the cargo in detail .
3. The list of the ship's company, containing an indication by name and in detail of the persons composing the crew of the vessel. These documents shall always be authenticated according to the forms established at the place, from which the vessel shall have sailed.
As their production ought to be exacted only, when one of the contracting parties shall be at war, and as their exhibition ought to have no other object than to prove the neutrality of the vessel, its cargo and company, they shall not be deemed absolutely necessary on board such vessels, belonging to the neutral party, as shall have sailed from its ports, before or within three months after the government shall have been informed of the state of war, in which the belligerent party shall
be engaged. In the interval, in default of these specific documents, the neutrality of the vessel may be established by such other evidence, as the tribunals, authorised to judge of the case, may deem sufficient.

ARTICLE XV.

Manner of
vniostituinndg evrescsoenlsvoy.

And to prevent entirely all disorder and violence, in such cases, it 18 stipulated, that when the vessels of the neutral party, sailing without convoy, shall be met by any vessel of war, public or private, of the other party, such vessel of war shall not send more than two or three men in their boat on board the said neutral vessel, to examine her passports and documents . And all persons belonging to any vessel of war, public
or private, who shall molest or insult in any manner whatever, the people, vessels or effects of the other party, shall be responsible in their persons and property for damages and interest, sufficient security for which shall be given by all commanders of private armed vessels before they are commissioned.

ARTICLE XVI.

Ofembargoes. In times of war, or in cases of urgent necessity, when either of the

contracting parties shall be obliged to lay a general embargo, either in

all its ports, or in certain particular places, the vessels of the other party

shall be subject to this measure, upon the same footing, as those of the most favoured nations, but without having the right to claim the exemp-

tion in their favour stipulated in the 16th article of the former treaty of

1785. But on the other hand the proprietors of the vessels which shall

have been detained, whether for some military expedition , or for what

other use soever, shall obtain from the government that shall have em

ployed them, an equitable indemnity, as well for the freight as for the Seizures, de- loss occasioned by the delay. And furthermore, in all cases of seizure ,

treensttsiotnos

and be

ar-

made in due

course of law

only.

detention or arrest, for debts contracted or offences committed by any citizen or subject of the one party, within the jurisdiction of the other, the same shall be made and prosecuted by order and authority of law only, and according to the regular course of proceedings usual in such cases.

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

171

navire, ainsi que le nom et le domicile du maitre. Ces passeports, qui seront expédiés en bonne et due forme, devront être renouvellés toutes les fois que le vaisseau retournera dans son port, et seront exhibés à chaque réquisition, tant en pleine mer , que dans le port. Mais si le navire se trouve sous le convoi d'un, ou de plusieurs vaisseaux de guerre, appartenants à la partie neutre, il suffira que l'officier commandant le convoi déclare que le navire est de son parti ; moyennant quoi cette simple déclaration sera censée établir le fait et dispensera les deux parties de toute visite ultérieure.
2. De la Certe-partie, c'est à dire, du contrat passé pour le frêt de tout la navire, ou des connoissements, donnés pour la cargaison en général .
Et 3. Du rôle d'équipage, contenant l'indication nominale et détaillée des personnes, qui composent l'équipage du navire. Ces documents
seront toujours expédiés dans la forme établie à l'endroit, d'où la navire aura mis à la voile.
Comme leur production ne doit être exigée, que dans le cas où l'une des parties contractantes seroit en guerre, et que leur exhibition ne doit avoir d'autre but, que de prouver la neutralité des vaisseaux, de leurs équipages et de leurs cargaisons, ils ne seront pas censés absolument nécessaires à bord des navires de la partie neutre, qui seront sortis de ses ports, avant, ou trois mois après, que le gouvernement aura eu connaissance de l'état de guerre où se trouve la partie belligérante. Pendant cet intervalle le naivre pourra, au défaut des documens ci-dessus spécifiés, prouver sa neutralité par tel autre témoignage, que les tribunaux, appellés à juger du cas, trouveront suffisans.

ARTICLE XV.

Pour prévenir entierèment tout désordre et toute violence en pareil cas, il a été stipulé, que lorsque les navires de la partie neutre, navigeant sans convoi, rencontreront quelque vaisseau de guerre, public ou particulier, de l'autre partie, le vaisseau de guerre n'enverra pas plus de deux ou trois hommes dans sa chaloupe à bord du navire neutre pour examiner les passeports et documents. Et toutes les personnes appartenantes à quelque vaisseau de guerre public ou particulier, qui molesteront ou insulteront en quelque manière que ce soit, l'équipage, les vaisseaux ou effets de l'autre partie, seront responsables en leurs personnes et en leurs biens, de tous dommages et intérêts, pour lesquels il sera donné caution suffisante par tous les commandans de vaisseaux armés en course, avant qu'ils reçoivent leurs commissions.

ARTICLE XVI.
Dans les tems de guerre, et les cas de nécessité urgente, où l'une des parties contractantes se verroit obligée d'établir un embargo général , soit dans tous les ports de sa domination , soit dans certains ports particuliers, les vaisseaux de l'autre partie resteront assujettis à cette mésure, sur le même pied que le seront les navires des nations les plus avantagées, sans pouvoir réclamer l'exemption , qui avoit été stipulée en leur faveur dans l'article XVI de l'ancien traité de 1785. Mais d'un autre
coté les propriétaires des vaisseaux, qui auront été retenus, soit pour quelque expédition militare, soit pour tel autre usage que ce soit, obtiendront du gouvernement qui les aura employés, une indemnité équitable, tant pour le frêt que pour les pertes occasionées par le retard.
De plus et dans tous les cas de saisie, de détention , ou d'arrêt , soit pour dettes contractées, ou offenses commises par quelque citoyen ou sujet de l'une des parties contractantes dans la jurisdiction de l'autre, on procédera uniquement par ordre, et par autorité de la justice, et suivant les voyes ordinaires en pareil cas usitées.

173

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

ARTICLE XVII.

Salvage on recapture, when cornaeios fnetuhterpalo. w.

If any vessel or effects of the neutral power be taken by an enemy of the other, or by a pirate, and retaken by the power at war, they shall be restored to the first proprietor, upon the conditions hereafter stipulated in the twenty-first article for cases of re-capture.

Right of asy. lum.

ARTICLE XVIII .
If the citizens or subjects of either party, in danger from tempests, pirates, enemies or other accident, shall take refuge with their vessels or effects, within the harbours or jurisdiction of the other, they shall be received, protected, and treated with humanity and kindness, and shall be permitted to furnish themselves, at reasonable prices, with all refreshments, provisions, and other things necessary for their sustenance , health and accommodation , and for the repair of their vessels.

ARTICLE XIX.

Bringing in of prizes .

The vessels of war, public and private, of both parties, shall carry freely, wheresoever they please, the vessels and effects taken from their enemies, without being obliged to pay any duties, charges, or fees to officers of admiralty, of the customs, or any others ; nor shall such prizes be arrested, searched, or put under legal process, when they come to and enter the ports of the other party, but may freely be carried out again at any time by their captors to the places expressed in their commissions, which the commanding officer of such vessel shall be obliged to shew. But conformably to the treaties existing between the United States and Great Britain , no vessel, that shall have made a prize upon British subjects, shall have a right to shelter in the ports of the United States, but if forced therein by tempests, or any other danger , or accident of the sea, they shall be obliged to depart as soon as possible.

The subjects of one party shall not take letters of marque from
the enemy of the other, & c.

ARTICLE XX.
No citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties shall take from any power with which the other may be at war, any commission or letter of marque, for arming any vessel to act as a privateer against the other, on pain of being punished as a pirate ; nor shall either party hire, lend or give any part of its naval or military force to the enemy of the other, to aid them offensively or defensively against the other.

ARTICLE XXI.

Rules appli cable to the
prosecution of a common war.

If the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war against a common enemy, the following points shall be observed between them.
1. If a vessel of one of the parties, taken by the enemy, shall, before being carried into a neutral or enemy's port, be retaken by a ship of war or privateer of the other, it shall, with the cargo, be restored to the first owners, for a compensation of one eighth part of the value of the said vessel and cargo, if the recapture be made by a public ship of war, and one sixth part, if made by a privateer.
2. The restitution in such cases shall be after due proof of property, and surety given for the part to which the recaptors are entitled.

3. The vessels of war, public and private, of the two parties, shall reciprocally be admitted with their prizes into the respective ports of each , but the said prizes shall not be discharged, or sold there, untill

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

173

ARTICLE XVII.
S'il arrivoit que les batimens ou effets de la puissance neutre fussent pris par l'ennemie de l'autre, ou par un pirate et ensuite repris par la puissance en guerre ils seront restitués au premier propriétaire, aux conditions qui seront stipulées ci-après dans l'article XXI , pour les cas de reprise.
ARTICLE XVIII.
Lorsque les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des deux parties contractantes, seront forcés par des tempêtes, ou par la poursuite des corsaires ou vaisseaux ennemis, ou par quelqu' autre accident, à se réfugier avec leurs vaisseaux ou effets dans les havres, ou dans la juridiction de l'autre , ils seront reçus, protégés, et traités avec humanité et honnêteté. Il leur sera permis de se pourvoir à un prix raisonnable de rafraichissements, de provisions, et de toutes choses nécessaires, pour leur subsistance, santé et commodité, et pour la réparation de leurs vaisseaux.
ARTICLE XIX .
Les vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers des deux parties contractantes pourront conduire en toute liberté partout où il leur plaira, les vaisseaux et effets, qu'ils auront pris sur leurs ennemis, sans être obligés de payer aucuns impôts, charges ou droits, aux officiers de l'amirauté, des douanes, ou autres. Ces prises ne pourront être non plus ni arrêtées, ni visitées, ni soumises à des procédures légales en entrant dans le port de l'autre partie, mais elles pourront en sortir librement, et être conduites en tout temps par le vaisseau preneur aux endroits portés par les commissions , dont l'officier commandant le dit vaisseau sera obligé de faire montre. Mais conformément aux Traités subsistans entre les Etats Unis et le Grande Bretagne, tout vaisseau qui aura fait une prise sur des sujets de cette dernière puissance, ne sauroit obtenir un droit d'asile dans les ports des Etats Unis, et s'il est forcé d'y rélâcher par des tempêtes ou quelque autre danger ou accident de mer, il sera obligé d'en repartir le plutôt possible.
ARTICLE XX.
Aucun citoyen ou sujet de l'une des deux parties contractantes n'acceptera d'une puissance avec laquelle l'autre pourroit être en guerre, commission, ni lettre de marque, pour armer en course contre cette dernière, sous peine d'être puni comme pirate. Et ni l'un ni l'autre des deux etats ne louera, prêtera ou donnera une partie de ses forces navales ou militaires, à l'ennemi de l'autre, pour l'aider à agir offensivement ou defensivement contre l'etat qui est en guerre.
ARTICLE XXI.
S'il arrivoit que les deux parties contractantes fussent en mêmes tems en guerre contre un ennemie commun, on observera de part et d'autre les points suivans.
1. Lorsqu'un navire de l'une des deux nations sera repris par les vaisseaux de guerre ou armateurs de l'autre, avant d'avoir été conduit
dans un port ennemi ou neutre, il sera restitué avec sa cargaison au premier propriétaire, moyennant une rétribution d'un huitième de la valeur du navire et de la cargaison , si la reprise a été faite par un vaisseau de guerre, et d'un sixième, si elle a été faite par un armateur.
2. Dans ces cas, la restitution n'aura lieu qu'après les preuves faites de la propriété, sous caution de la quote-part, qui en revient à ceux qui ont repris le navire.
3. Les vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers des deux parties contractantes seront adinis réciproquement avec leurs prises, dans les ports respectifs, cependant ces prises ne pourront y être déchargées, ni
P2

174

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

their legality shall have been decided according to the laws and regulations of the state to which the captor belongs, but by the judicatories of the place, into which the prize shall have been conducted .
4. It shall be free to each party to make such regulations as they shall judge necessary, for the conduct of their respective vessels of war, public and private, relative to the vessels, which they shall take, and carry into the ports of the two parties.

ARTICLE XXII.

The ships of
war of one partthyeshvaelslseplrsotoefct the other.

When the contracting parties shall have a common enemy, or shall both be neutral, the vessels of war of each shall upon all occasions take under their protection the vessels of the other going the same course, and shall defend such vessels as long as they hold the same course,
against all force and violence, in the same manner as they ought to protect and defend vessels belonging to the party of which they are.

ARTICLE XXIII.

Regulations for If war should arise between the two contracting parties, the merchants

softening the effects of war

of either country, then residing in the other, shall be allowed to remain

between the nine months, to collect their debts and settle their affairs, and may

two parties. depart freely carrying off all their effects, without molestation or hin-

drance, and all women and children , scholars of every faculty, cultivators

of the earth, artisans, manufacturers and fishermen , unarmed and in-

habiting unfortified towns, villages or places , and in general all others,

whose occupations are for the common subsistence and benefit of man-

kind, shall be allowed to continue their respective employments , and

shall not be molested in their persons, nor shall their houses or goods

be burnt, or otherwise destroyed , nor their fields wasted by the armed

force of the enemy, into whose power, by the events of war, they may

happen to fall ; but if any thing is necessary to be taken from them for

the use of such armed force, the same shall be paid for at a reasonable

price.

ARTICLE XXIV.
And to prevent the destruction of prisoners of war, by sending them into distant and inclement countries, or by crouding them into close and noxious places, the two contracting parties solemnly pledge themselves to the world and to each other, that they will not adopt any such practice ; that neither will send the prisoners, whom they may take from the other, into the East-Indies or any other parts of Asia or Africa, but they shall be placed in some parts of their dominions in Europe or America, in wholesome situations ; that they shall not be confined in dungeons, prison-ships, nor prisons, nor be put into irons, nor bound , nor otherwise restrained in the use of their limbs , that the officers shall be enlarged on their paroles within convenient districts, and have comfortable quarters, and the common men be disposed in cantonments open and extensive enough for air and exercise, and lodged in barracks as roomly and good as are provided by the party in whose power they are, for their own troops ; that the officers shall also be daily furnished by the party in whose power they are, with as many rations, and of the same articles and quality as are allowed by them , either in kind, or by commutation to officers of equal rank in their own army ; and all others shall be daily furnished by them, with such ration as they shall allow to a common soldier in their own service ; the value whereof shall be paid by the other party on a mutual adjustment of accounts for the subsistence of prisoners at the close of the war ; and the said accounts shall not be mingled with or set off, against any others , nor the balances due

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

175

vendues, qu'après que la légitimé de la prise aura été décidée suivant les lois et réglemens de l'etat dont le preneur est sujet, mais par la justice du lieu où la prise aura été conduite.
4. Il sera libre à chacune des parties contractantes de faire tels reglemens, qu'elles jugeront nécessaires rélativement à la conduite que devront tenir respectivement leurs vaisseaux de guerre publics et particuliers à l'égard des batimens qu'ils auront pris et aménés dans les ports des deux puissances.
ARTICLE XXII.
Lorsque les parties contractantes seront engagées en guerre contre un ennemi commun, ou qu'elles seront neutres toutes deux, les vaisseaux de guerre de l'une prendront en toute occasion sous leur protection les navires de l'autre, qui font avec eux la même route, et ils les défendront aussi longtems qu'ils feront voile ensemble contre toute force et violence, et de la même manière qu'ils protégeroient et défendroient les navires de leur propre nation.
ARTICLE XXIII.
S'il survient une guerre entre les parties contractantes, les marchands de l'un des deux etats, qui résideront dans l'autre, auront la permissio.n d'y rester encore neuf mois, pour récueillir leurs dettes actives et arranger leurs affaires, après quoi ils pourront partir en toute liberté, et emporter tous leurs biens, sans être molestés ni empêchés. Les femmes et les enfans , les gens de lettres de toutes les facultés , les cultivateurs, artisans, manufacturiers, et pêcheurs, qui ne sont point armés, et qui habitent des villes, villages, ou places non-fortifiées, et en général tous ceux dont la vocation tend à la subsistance , et à l'avantage commun du genre humain, auront la liberté de continuer leurs professions respectives, et ne seront point molestés en leurs personnes, ni leurs maisons, ou leurs bien incendiés, ou autrement detruits, ni leurs champs ravagés par les armées de l'ennemi, au pouvoir duquel ils pourroient tomber par les événemens de la guerre, mais si l'on se trouve dans la nécessité de prendre quelque chose de leurs propriétés pour l'usage de l'armée ennemie, la valeur en sera payée à une prix raisonnable.
ARTICLE XXIV.
Afin d'adoucir le sort des prisonniers de guerre et de ne les point exposer à être envoyés dans des climats éloignés et rigoreux, ou resserrés dans des habitations étroites et malsaines, les deux parties contractantes s'engagent solemnellement l'une envers l'autre et à la face de l'univers, qu'elles n'adopteront aucun de ces usages, que les prisonniers qu'elles pourroient faire l'une sur l'autre ne seront transportés ni aux Indes Orientales, ni dans aucune contrée de l'Asie, ou de l'Afrique, mais qu'on leur assignera en Europe, ou en Amérique, dans les territoires respectifs des parties contractantes un séjour situé dans un air sain, qu'ils ne seront point confinés dans des cachôts, ni dans des prisons, ni dans des vaisseaux de prison, qu'ils ne seront pas mis aux fers, ni garotés, ni autrement privés de l'usage de leurs membres ; que les officiers seront rélachés sur leur parole d'honneur dans l'enceinte de certains districts qui leur seront fixés, et qu'on leur accordera des logemens commodes ; que les simples soldats seront distribués dans des cantonnemens ouverts, assez vastes pour prendre l'air, et l'exercise , et qu'ils seront logés dans des barraques aussi spatieuses et aussi commodes, que le sont celles des troupes de la puissance au pouvoir de laquelle se trouvent les prisonniers ; que cette puissance fera pourvoir journellement les officiers d'autant de rations, composés des mêmes articles et de la même qualité, dont jouissent en nature ou en équivalent les officiers du même rang, qui sont à son propre service, qu'elle fournira également à tous les autres prisonniers, une ration pareille à celle

1.76

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA . 1799.

on them be withheld as a satisfaction or reprisal for any other article, or for any other cause, real or pretended, whatever. That each party shall be allowed to keep a commissary of prisoners of their own appointment, with every separate cantonment of prisoners in possession of the other, which commissary shall see the prisoners as often as he pleases, shall be allowed to receive and distribute whatever comforts may be sent to them by their friends ; and shall be free to make his reports in open letters to those who employ him ; but if any officer shall break his parole, or any other prisoner shall escape from the limits of his cantonment after they shall have been designated to him, such individual officer or other prisoner shall forfeit so much of the benefit of this article as provides for his enlargement on parole or cantonment. And it is declared, that neither the pretence, that war dissolves all treaties, nor any other whatever shall be considered as annulling or suspending this and the next preceding article ; but on the contrary that the state of war is precisely that for which they are provided, and during which they are to be as sacredly observed as the most acknowledged articles in the law of nature and nations.

Consuls, & c. allowed to reside inthe dominions of the
two parties.

ARTICLE XXV.
The two contracting parties have granted to each other the liberty of having each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and commissaries of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges and powers, as those of the most favoured nations. But if any such consuls shall exercise commerce , they shall be submitted to the same laws and usages, to which the private individuals of their nation are submitted in the same place.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Favours granted to others to be extended to
the parties.

If either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation, any particular favour in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become common to the other party, freely, where it is freely granted to such other nation, or on yielding the same compensation when the grant is conditional.

Limitation of the treaty.

ARTICLE XXVII.
His Majesty the king of Prussia and the United States of America agree, that this treaty shall be in force during the term of ten years from the exchange of the ratifications ; and if the expiration of that term should happen during the course of a war between them, then the articles before provided for the regulation of their conduct during such a war, shall continue in force untill the conclusion of the treaty, which shall restore peace.
This treaty shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications exchanged within one year from the day of its signature or sooner if possible.

In testimony whereof the Plenipotentiaries before mentioned, have hereto subscribed their names and affixed their seals. Done at

Berlin the eleventh of July, in the year one thousand seven hun-

dred and ninety-nine.

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS . (L. S.)

CHARLES GUILLAUME Comte de Finkenstein. PHILIPPE CHARLES d'Alvensleben.

(L. S.) (L. S.

CHRETIEN HENRI CURCE Comte d'Haugwiz. (L. s. )

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1799.

177

qui est accordée au soldat de sa propre armée. Le montant de ces dépenses sera payé par l'autre puissance, d'àpres une liquidation de compte, à arrêter reciproquement pour l'entretien des prisonniers à la fin de la guerre, et ces comptes ne seront point confondus, ou balancés avec d'autres comptes, ni la solde qui en est due, retenue, comme compensation, ou represailles, pour tel autre article, ou telle autre prétension réelle, ou supposée. Il sera permis à chacune des deux puissances d'entretenir un commissaire de leur choix, dans chaque cantonnement des prisonniers, qui sont au pouvoir de l'autre. Ces commissaires auront la liberté de visiter les prisonniers, aussi souvent qu'ils le désireront, ils pourront également recevoir et distribuer les douceurs, que les parens ou amis des prisonniers, leur feront parvenir ; enfin il leur sera libre encore, de faire leurs rapports par lettres ouvertes, à ceux qui les employent. Mais si un officier manquoit à sa parole d'honneur, ou qu'un autre prisonnier sortit des limites, qui auront été fixées à son cantonnement, un tel officier ou autre prisonnier sera frustré individuellement des avantages stipulés dans cet article pour sa relaxation sur parole d'honneur, ou pour son cantonnement. Les deux
puissances contractantes ont declarés en outre, que ni le pretexte que la guerre rompt les traités, ni tel autre motif quelconque, ne sera censé annuller, ou suspendre cet article, et le precédént, mais qu'au contraire le tems de la guerre est précisément celui pour lequel ils ont été stipulés, et durant lequel ils seront observés aussi saintement, que les articles les plus universellement reconnus par le droit de la nature et des gens.
ARTICLE XXV. Les deux parties contractantes, se sont accordé mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs des consuls , vice-consuls, agens, et commissaires de leurs choix, et ils y jouïront des mêmes privilèges et pouvoirs dont jouissent ceux des nations les plus favorisées. Mais dans le cas où tel ou autre de ses consuls veuille faire le commerce, il sera soumis aux mêmes lois et usages auxquels sont soumis les particuliers de sa nation à l'endroit où il réside.
ARTICLE XXVI.
Lorsque l'une des deux parties contractantes accordera dans la suite quelque faveur particulière en fait de navigation ou de commerce à d'autres nations, elle deviendra aussitôt commune à l'autre partie contractante, et celle-ci jouïra de cette faveur gratuitement, si la conces sion est gratuite, ou en accordant la même compensation si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE XXVII.
Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse et les Etats Unis de l'Amérique sont convenus que le présent traité aura son plein effet pendant l'espace de dix années à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications, et que si l'expiration de ce terme arrivoit dans le cours d'une guerre entr'eux , les articles ci-dessus stipulés pour régler leur conduite en tems de guerre conserveront toute leur force jusqu'à la conclusion du traité qui rétablira la paix.
Le présent traité sera ratifié de part et d'autre, et les ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace d'une année à compter du jour de la signature, ou plutôt si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires sus nommés ont signé le présent traité et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes. Fait à Berlin le onze Juillet, l'an mille sept cents quatre-vingt dix-neuf.

CHARLES GUILLAUME Comte de Finkenstein. (L. S. )

PHILIPPE CHARLES d'Alvensleben.

(L. S.)

CHRETIEN HENRI CURCE Comte de Haugwiz. (L. s.)

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS .

(L. S.

VOL. VIII. 23

CONVENTION

Between the French Republic and the United States of America. (a)

Sep. 30, 1800.
Convention
for terminating the differences between the U. States and France.

THE Premier Consul of the French Republic in the name of the people of France, and the President of the United States of America, equally desirous to terminate the differences which have arisen between the two States, have respectively appointed their plenipotentiaries, and given them full powers to treat upon those differences, and to terminate the same ; that is to say, the Premier Consul of the French Republic, in the name of the people of France, has appointed for the Plenipotentiaries of the said republic, the Citizens Joseph Bonaparte, ex-ambassador at Rome and Counsellor of State ; Charles Pierre Claret Fleurieu, member of the National Institute, and of the Board of Longitude, of France, and Counsellor of State, President of the Section of Marine ; and Pierre Louis Roederer, Member of the National Institute of France, and Counsellor of State, President of the Section of the Interior ; and the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said States, has appointed for their Plenipotentiaries , Oliver Ellsworth, Chief Justice of the United States, William Richardson Davie, late Governor of the State of North-Carolina, and William Vans Murray, Minister resident of the United States at the Hague ; who, after having exchanged their full powers, and after full and mature discussion of the respective interests, have agreed on the following articles.

Firm , inviola- ARTICLE I. There shall be a firm , inviolable, and universal peace,

ble, and universal peace be-

and a true and

sincere friendship

between the French Republic and

tween the

the United States of America ; and between their respective countries,

French Repub- territories, cities, towns and people, without exception of persons or lic and U.S. of places. America.

Treaty of 6th
Feb. 1778, and convention of 14th Nov. 1788,
abrogated.

ART. II. ( b) The Ministers Plenipotentiary of the two parties not being able to agree at present respecting the treaty of alliance of 6th February 1778, the treaty of amity and commerce of the same date, and the convention of 14th of November, 1783, nor upon the indemni-
ties mutually due or claimed ; the parties will negociate further on these subjects at a convenient time, and until they may have agreed upon these points, the said treaties and convention shall have no operation , and the relations of the two countries shall be regulated as follows.

Captured pub- ART. III. The public ships, which have been taken on one part and

lic ships to be the other, or which may be taken before the exchange of ratifications,

restored.

shall be restored.

ART. IV. Property captured, and not yet definitively condemned , or
which may be captured before the exchange of ratifications ( contraband
goods destined to an enemy's port excepted ) shall be mutually restored
(a) For the treaties and conventions between the United States and France , see page 6. Notes of the decisions of the Courts of the United States on the treaties of 1778 and 1783, ante 12. (b) This article was expunged before the final ratification of the treaty, and the following article was added : " It is agreed that the presen1t9 convention shall be in force for the term of eight years from the time of the exchange of ratications."
(179)

CONVENTION
Entre la République Française et les Etats- Unis d'Amérique.
LE PREMIER CONSUL de la République Française au nom du Peuple Français, et le PRESIDENT des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, également animés du désir de mettre fin aux différends qui sont survenus entre les deux Etats, ont respectivement nommé leurs Plénipotentiaires, et leur ont donné pleinpouvoir pour négocier sur ces différends et les terminer ; c'est à dire, le PREMIER CONSUL de la République Française, au nom du Peuple Française, a nommé pour plénipotentiaires da la dite République, les Citoyens Joseph Bonaparte, ex-ambassadeur de la République Français à Rome et Conseiller d'Etat, Charles Pierre Claret Fleurieu, membre de l'Institut National et du Bureau des Longitudes de France, et Conseiller d'Etat, Président de la Section de la Marine, et Pierre Louis Roederer, membre de l'Institut National de France, et Conseiller d'Etat , President de la Section de l'Intérieur ; et le PRESIDENT des Etats-Unis, d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat des dits Etats, a nommé pour leurs Plénipotentiaires, Olivier Ellsworth, Chef de la Justice des Etats-Unis ; William Richardson Davie, ci-devant Gouverneur de l'Etat de la Caroline septentrionale, et William Vans Murray, Ministre résident des Etats-Unis à la Haye.
Lesquels, aprés avoir fait l'éxchange de leurs pleins-pouvoirs longuement et murement discuté les Intérêts respectifs, sont convenus des articles suivans.
ARTICLE I. Il y aura une paix ferme, inviolable et universelle , et une amitié vraie et sincère, entre la République Française et les EtatsUnis d'Amérique, ainsi qu'entre leurs pays, territoires, villes et places, et entre leurs citoyens et habitants, sans exception de personnes ni de lieux.
ART. II. Les Ministres Plénipotentiaires des deux parties ne pouvant pour le présent s'accorder relativement au Traité d'Alliance du 6 Février 1778, au Traité d'Amitié et de commerce de la même date, et à la Convention en date du 14 Novembre 1788, non plus que relativement aux indemnités mutuellement dues ou réclamées, les parties négocieront ultérieurement sur ces objets, dans un tems convenable : et jusqu'à ce qu'elles se soyent accordées sur ces points, les dits Traités et convention n'auront point d'Effet, et les relations des deux Nations seront réglées ainsi qui'il suit.
ART. III. Les Bâtimens d'Etats qui ont été pris de part et d'autre, ou qui pourraient être pris avant l'échange des ratifications seront rendus.
ART. IV. Les propriétés capturées et non encore condamnées définitivement, ou qui pourront être capturées avant l'échange des ratifications, excepté les marchandises de contrabande destinées pour un port ennemi ,
(179)

180

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

Captured pro-
pfienrittyiv,eilfyncotond-edemned, to be restored.

on the following proofs of ownership ; viz. The proof on both sides with respect to merchant ships, whether armed or unarmed, shall be a passport in the form following:
" To all who shall see these presents, GREETING :

Form of the

" It is hereby made known that leave and permission has been given

passportto mer- to

master and commander of the ship called

chant ships. of the town of

burthen

tons, or there-

See treaty of 1778, article 25,
ante, 26. Proof of -
tured vessels
restored.

abouts, lying at present in the port and haven of

bound for

and laden with

and after that his

ship has been visited, and before sailing, he shall make oath before the

officers who have the jurisdiction of maritime affairs, that the said ship

belongs to one or more of the subjects of

the

act whereof shall be put at the end of these presents, as likewise that

he will keep, and cause to be kept by his crew on board, the marine

ordinances and regulations, and enter in the proper office a list, signed

and witnessed, containing the names and surnames, the places of birth

and abode of the crew of his ship, and of all who shall embark on

board her ; whom he shall not take on board without the knowledge and permission of the officers of the marine, and in every port or haven

where he shall enter with his ship, he shall shew this present leave to

the officers and judges of the marine, and shall give a faithful account to them of what passed and was done during his voyage ; and he shall

carry the colours, arms and ensigns of the [ French republic or the

United States] during his voyage. In witness whereof we have signed

these presents, and put the seal of our arms thereunto, and caused the

same to be countersigned by

at

the

day of

anno Domini."

Proof with respect to cargo.

And this passport will be sufficient without any other paper, any ordinance to the contrary notwithstanding : which passport shall not be deemed requisite to have been renewed or recalled, whatever number of voyages the said ship may have made, unless she shall have returned home within the space of a year. - Proof with respect to the cargo shall be certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, the place whence the ship sailed and whither she is bound , so that the forbidden and contraband goods may be distinguished by the certificates ; which certificates shall have been made out by the officers of the place whence the ship set sail, in the accustomed form of the country. And if such passport or certificates, or both, shall have been destroyed by accident or taken away by force, their deficiency may be supplied by such other proofs of ownership , as are admissible by the general usage of nations. Proof with respect to other than merchant ships shall be the commission they bear.

This article to This article shall take effect from the date of the signature of the

take effect from present convention . And if, from the date of the said signature, any

the signature of this convention.

property shall be condemned contrary to the intent of the said conven-

tion, before the knowledge of this stipulation shall be obtained , the

property so condemned shall without delay be restored or paid for.

Debts due by individuals of either nation
may be paid, & c.

ART. V. The debts contracted by one of the two nations with individuals of the other , or by the individuals of one with the individuals of the other, shall be paid , or the payment may be prosecuted in the same manner as if there had been no misunderstanding between the two states. But this clause shall not extend to indemnities claimed on

Commerce between the parties to be free.

account of captures or confiscations.
ART. VI. Commerce between the parties shall be free. The vessels of the two nations and their privateers , as well as their prizes, shall be treated in their respective ports as those of the nation the most favoured ; and, in general, the two parties shall enjoy in the ports of each other,

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

181

seront rendues mutuellement sur les preuves suivantes de propriété ; Savoir:

De part et d'autre, les preuves de propriété relativement aux navires

marchands, armés ou non armés, seront un passeport de la form suivante :

"A tous ceux qui les preséntes verront, soit notoire que faculté et

permission a été accordée à

maitre ou commandant du

navire, appellé

de la ville de

de la capacité

de

tonneaux ou environ , se trouvant présentement dans

le port et hâvre de

et destiné pour

chargé de

qu'après que son navire a été visité et

avant son départ, il prêtera serment entre les mains des officiers auto-

risés à cet effet ; que le dit navire appartient à un ou plusieurs sujets de dont l'acte sera mis à la fin des présentes ; de

même qu'il gardera et fera garder par son équipage, les ordonnances et

règlemens maritimes, et remettra une liste signée et confirmée par té-

moins, contenant les noms et surnoms, les lieux de naissance, et la De-

meure des Personnes composant l'équipage de son navire, et de tous

ceux qui s'y embarqueront, lesquels il ne recevra pas à bord sans la

connaissance et permission des officiers autorisés à ce ; et dans chaque

port ou hâvre où il entrera avec son navire, il montrera la présente per-

mission aux officiers à ce autorisés, et leur fera un rapport fidèle de ce

qui s'est passé durant son voyage ; et il portera les couleurs, armes et

enseignes (de la République Française ou des Etats Unis ) durant son

dit voyage. En témoin de quoi nous avons signé les présentes, les

avons fait contresigner par

et y avons fait apposer le

sceau de nos armes.

Donné à

le

de

l'an de grace, le

""

Et ce passeport suffira sans autre pièce, non obstant tout réglement contraire. Il ne sera pas exigé que ce passeport ait été renouvellé ou révoqué, quelque nombre de voyages que le dit navire ait pu faire, à moins qu'il ne soit revenu chez lui dans l'espace d'une année.
Par rapport à la cargaison, les preuves seront des certificates contenant le détail de la cargaison , du lieu d'où le Bâtiment est parti et de celui où il va, de manière que les marchandises défendues et de contrebande puissent être distinguées par les certificats, lesquels certificats auront été faits par les officiers de l'endroit d'ou le navire sera parti, dans la forme usitée dans le pays, et si ces passeports ou certificats, ou les uns et les autres ont été détruits par accident, ou enlevés de force, leur Défaut pourra être supplée par toutes les autres preuves de propriété admissibles d'apprès l'usage géneral des Nations.
Pour les Bâtimens autres que les navires marchands, les preuves seront la Commission dont il sont porteurs. Cet article aura son effet à dater de la signature de la présente convention ; et si à dater de la dite signature, des propriétés sont condamnées contrairement à l'esprit de la dite convention, avant qu'on ait connaissance de cette stipulation la propriété ainsi condamnée sera, sans délai, rendue ou payée.

ART. V. Les Dettes contractées par l'une des deux nations envers les particuliers de l'autre, ou par des particuliers de l'une envers des particuliers de l'autre, seront acquittées ou le payement en sera poursuivi comme s'il n'y avait eu aucune mésintelligence entre les deux Etats ; mais cette clause ne s'étendra point aux indemnités réclamées pour des captures ou pour des condamnations.
ART. VI. Le commerce entre les deux Parties sera libre : les vaisseaux des deux nations et leurs corsaires , ainsi que leurs prises, seront traités dans les ports respectifs comme ceux de la nation la plus favorisée, et, en general , les deux parties jouiront dans les ports l'une de l'autre, par
Q

182

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800 .

in regard to commerce and navigation, the privileges of the most favoured nation.

Citizens of Bither country
ttoo dbeeviastelitbheeritry
property, and to have the right
otro tdaevkies,etowigtihv-e, out naturalization.

ART. VII. The citizens and inhabitants of the United States shall be
at liberty to dispose by testament, donation , or otherwise, of their goods, moveable and immoveable, holden in the territory of the French Republic in Europe, and the citizens of the French Republic shall have the same liberty with regard to goods, moveable and immoveable, holden in the territory of the United States, in favor of such persons as they shall think proper. The citizens and inhabitants of either of the two
countries, who shall be heirs of goods, moveable or immoveable, in the other, shall be able to succeed ab intestato, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturalization, and without having the effect of this

provision contested or impeded, under any pretext whatever ; and the said heirs, whether such by particular title, or ab intestato, shall be exempt from any duty whatever in both countries. It is agreed that this article shall in no manner derogate from the laws which either state

may now have in force, or hereafter may enact, to prevent emigration ; and also that in case the laws of either of the two states should restrain

strangers from the exercise of the rights of property with respect to real estate, such real estate may be sold, or otherwise disposed of, to citizens or inhabitants of the country where it may be, and the other nation shall be at liberty to enact similar laws.

In case of war between the
two nations, six months to be allowed to re-
move property.

ART. VIII. To favor commerce on both sides, it is agreed, that, in case a war should break out between the two nations, which God forbid, the term of six months after the declaration of war shall be allowed to
the merchants and other citizens and inhabitants respectively, on one side and the other, during which time they shall be at liberty to with-

draw themselves, with their effects and moveables, which they shall be at liberty to carry, send away, or sell, as they please, without the least

obstruction ; nor shall their effects, much less their persons be seized,

during such term of six months ; on the contrary, passports, which shall

be valid for a time necessary for their return, shall be given to them for their vessels and the effects which they shall be willing to send away or

carry with them ; and such passports shall be a safe conduct against all insults and prizes which privateers may attempt against their persons and effects. And if any thing be taken from them, or any injury done

to them or their effects, by one of the parties, their citizens or in-

habitants, within the term above prescribed , full satisfaction shall be made to them on that account.

No debts to
be sequestered or confiscated in case of war.

ART. IX . Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation
to individuals of the other, nor shares, nor monies, which they may have in public funds, or in the public or private banks, shall ever, in any event of war or of national difference, be sequestered or confiscated.

Commercial agents may be appointed.
Agents to act after being fur nished with exequatur.

ART. X. It shall be free for the two contracting parties to appoint
commercial agents for the protection of trade, to reside in France and the United States. Either party may except such place, as may be
thought proper, from the residence of those agents. Before any agent shall exercise his functions, he shall be accepted in the usual forms by the party to whom he is sent ; and when he shall have been accepted and furnished with his exequatur , he shall enjoy the rights and prerogatives of the similar agents of the most favoured nations.

ART. XI. The citizens of the French Republic shall pay in the ports, havens, roads, countries, islands, cities and towns of the United States, no other, or greater duties or imposts, of what nature soever

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

183

rapport au commerce et à la navigation, des privilèges de la nation la plus favorisée.
ART. VII. Les Citoyens et Habitans des Etats-Unis pourront disposer par testament, donation ou autrement, de leurs biens, meubles et immeubles possédés dans le territoire Européen de la République Française ; et les citoyens de la République Française auront la même faculté à l'égard des biens, meubles et immeubles possédés dans le Territoire des Etats-Unis, en faveur de telle personne que bon leur semblera. Les citoyens et habitans d'un des deux Etats, qui seront héritiers des Biens, meubles ou immeubles situés dans l'autre, pourront succéder ab intestat, sans qu'ils ayent besoin de lettres de naturalité et sans que l'effet de cette stipulation, leur puisse être contesté ou empêché, sous quelque prétexte que ce soit ; et seront les dits héritiers, soit à titre particulier, soit ab intestat, exempts de tout droit quelconque chex les deux nations. Il est convenu que cet article ne dérogera en aucune manière aux lois qui sont à présent en vigeur chez les deux nations ou qui pourraient être promulguées à la suite contre l'emigration, et aussi que dans le cas où les lois de l'un des deux Etats limiteraient pour les étrangers l'exercise des droits de la propriété sur les immeubles on pourrait vendre ces immeubles ou en disposer autrement en faveur d'habitans ou de citoyens du pays où ils seraient sitúes, et il sera libre à l'autre nation d'etablir de semblables lois.
ART. VIII. Pour favoriser de part et d'autre le commerce, il est convenu que si, ce qu'à Dieu ne plaise, le guerre éclatait entre les deux nations, on allouera, de part et d'autre, aux marchands et autres citoyens ou habitans respectifs, six mois après la déclaration de guerre, pendant lequel tems il sauront la faculté de se retirer avec leurs effets et meubles qu'ils pourront emmener envoyer ou vendre, comme ils les voudront, sans le moindre empêchment. Leurs effets, et encore moins leurs personnes, ne pourront point, pendent ce tems de six mois, être saisis ; au contraire, on leur donnera des passeports qui seront valables pour le tems nécessaire à leur retour chez eux ; et ces passeports seront donnés pour eux, ainsi que pour leur bâtimens et effets qui'ls désireront emmener ou envoyer. Ces passeports serviront de sauf-conduit contre toute insulte et contre toute capture de la part des corsaires, tant contre eux que contre leur effets ; et si, dans le terme ci-dessus désigné, il leur était fait par l'une des parties, ces citoyens ou ses habitans, quelque tort dans leur personnes ou dans leurs effets, on leur en donnera satisfaction complete.
ART. IX . Les dettes dues par des individus de l'une des deux nations aux individus de l'autre, ne pourront, dans aucun cas de guerre, ou de démêlés nationaux, être séquestrées ou confisquées non plus que les actions ou fonds qui se trouveraient dans les fonds publics, au dans des banques publiques ou particulières.
ART. X. Les deux parties contractantes pourront nommer, pour protéger le negoce, des agens commerciaux qui résideront en France et dans les Etats-Unis ; chacune des parties pourra excepter telle place qu'elle jugera à propos , des lieux où la résidence de ces agens pourra être fixée. Avant qu'aucun agent puisse exercer ses fonctions, il devra être accepté, dans les formes resçues, par la partie chez laquelle il est envoyé ; et quand il aura été accepté et pourvu de son Exequatur, il jouira des droits et prérogatives dont jouiront les Agens semblables des nations le plus favorisées.
ART. XI. Les citoyens de la République Française ne payeront dans les ports, hâvres, rades, contrées, isles, cités et lieux des Etats-Unis,
d'autres ni de plus grands droits, impots de quelque nature qu'ils puis-

184

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

Duties to be
paid no more than the duties paid by the most favoured nation.

they may be, or by what name soever called, than those which the nation most favored are, or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties, privileges, immunities and exemptions in trade, navigation and commerce, whether in passing from one port in the said states to another, or in going to and from the same from and to any part of the world, which the said nations do or shall enjoy. And the citizens of the United States shall reciprocally enjoy in the territories of the French Republic in Europe, the same privileges and immunities, as well for their property and persons, as for what concerns trade, navigation and commerce.

Citizens of France and of tatheliUb.erSt.y ttoo be trade from ene mies' to other ports of either country unless blockaded.
Notice of blockade to be given before capture ofvessels ; and vessels to be peromtihtetredpotrotgs.o to

ART. XII. It shall be lawful for the citizens of either country to sail with their ships and merchandize (contraband goods always excepted) from any port whatever to any port of the enemy of the other, and to sail and trade with their ships and merchandise, with perfect security and liberty, from the countries, ports and places of those who are enemies of both, or of either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, and to pass not only directly from the places and ports of the enemy aforementioned, to neutral ports and places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of the same power, or under the several ; unless such ports or places shall be actually blockaded , besieged or invested.
And whereas it frequently happens, that vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is either besieged, blockaded or invested, it is agreed that every vessel , so circumstanced , may be turned away from such port or place, but she shall not be de-
tained, nor any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after notice of such blockade or investment, she shall again at-
tempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such port or place before the same was actually besieged, blockaded, or invested by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo, nor if found therein after the reduction and surrender of such place, shall such vessel or her cargo be liable to confiscation, but they shall be restored to the owners thereof.

Contraband.

ART. XIII. In order to regulate what shall be deemed contraband of

war, there shall be comprised under that denomination, gun-powder,

saltpetre, petards , match, ball, bombs, grenades, carcasses, pikes, halberts, swords, belts , pistols, holsters, cavalry saddles and furniture, can-

non, mortars, their carriages and beds, and generally all kinds of arms, ammunition of war, and instruments fit for the use of troops ; all the

Vessels laden above articles, whenever they are destined to the port of an enemy, are

withcontraband hereby declared to be contraband , and just objects of confiscation ; but

goods, the residue of the

the vessel in which they are laden, and the residue of the cargo, shall

cargo, not tobe be considered free, and not in any manner infected by the prohibited

infected bythe goods, whether belonging to the same, or a different owner. prohibited
goods .

Free ships make free
goods; not con. traband, al-
though belong. ing to an enemy.
Persons not
military to be
protected in free ships.

ART. XIV. It is hereby stipulated that free ships shall give a freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed, in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to either party, they are to be

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

185

sent être, quelque nom qu'ils puissent avoir, que ceux que les nations les plus favorisées sont ou seront tenues de payer ; et ils jouiront de tous les droits, libertés, priviléges, immunités, et exemptions en fait de négoce, navigation et commerce, soit en passant d'un port des dits Etats à un autre, soit en y allant ou en revenant de quelque partie ou pour quelque partie du monde que ce soit, dont les nations susdites
jouissent ou jouiront. Et réciproquement, les citoyens des Etats-Unis jouiront, dans le Territoire de la République Française en Europe, des mêmes privilèges, immunités, tant pour leurs biens et leurs personnes, que pour ce qui concerne le négoce, la navigation et le commerce.
ART. XII. Les citoyens des deux nations pourront conduire leurs vaisseaux et marchandises (en exceptant toujours la contrebande) de tout port quelconque, dans un autre port appartenant à l'ennemi de l'autre nation ; ils pourront naviguer et commercer en toute liberté et sécurité, avec leurs navire set marchandises, dans les pays, ports et places des ennemis des deux parties ou de l'une ou de l'autre partie, sans obstacles et sans entraves, et non seulement passer directement des places et ports de l'ennemi sus mentionnés, dans les ports et places neutres, mais encore de toute place appartenant à un ennemi dans toute autre place appartenant à un ennemi, qu'elle soit ou ne soit pas soumise à la même jurisdiction, à moins que ces places ou ports ne soyent réellement bloqués, assiégés ou investis.
Et dans le cas, comme il arrive souvent, où les vaisseaux feraient
voile pour une place ou port appartenant à un ennemi, ignorant qu'ils sont blocqués, assiégés ou investis, il est convenu que tout navire qui se trouvera dans une pareille circonstance, sera détourné de cette place ou port, sans qu'on puisse le retener ni confisquer aucune partie de sa cargaison (à moins qu'elle ne soit de contrebande, ou qu'il ne soit prouveé que le dit navire, après avoir été averti du blocus ou investissement, a voulu rentrer dans ce même port) ; mais il lui sera permis d'aller dans tout autre port ou place qu'il jugera convenable. Aucun navire de l'une ou de l'autre nation, entré dans un port au place avant qu'ils ayent été réellement bloqués, assiégés ou investis par l'autre, ne pourra être empêché de sortir avec sa cargaison : s'il s'y trouve, lorsque la dite place sera rendue, le navire et sa cargaison ne pourront être confisqués, mais seront remis aux propriétaires.
ART. XIII. Pour régler ce qu'on entendra par contrebande de guerre, seront compris sous cette dénomination la poudre, le salpêtre , les pétards, mêches, balles, boulets, bombes , grenades, carcasses, piques, hallebardes, épées, ceinturons , pistolets, foureaux, selles de cavalerie, harnais, canons, mortiers avec leurs affuts, et généralement toutes armes et munitions de guerre et untensiles, à l'usage des troupes. Tous les articles ci-dessus, toutes les fois qu'ils seront destinés pour le port d'un ennemi, sont déclarés de contrabande et justement soumis à la confiscation. Mais le bâtiment sur lequel ils étaient chargés, ainsi que le reste de la cargaison, seront regardés comme libres, et ne pourront en aucune manière être viciés par les marchandises de contrebande , soit qu'ils appartiennent à un même ou à différens propriétaires.
ART. XIV. Il est stipulé par le presént traité que les bâtimens libres assureront également la liberté des marchandises, et qu'on jugera libres toutes les choses qui se trouveront à bord des navires appartenant aux citoyens d'une des parties contractantes, quand même le chargement ou partie d'icelui appartiendrait aux ennemis de l'une des deux ; bien entendu néanmoins que la contrebande sera toujours excepté. Il est également convenu que cette même liberté s'étendra aux personnes qui pourraient se trouver à bard du bâtiment libre, quand même elles

VOL. VIII. 24

Q2

186

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

taken out of that free ship, unless they are soldiers and in actual service of the enemy.

Confiscation
of goods laden on board of an enemy's vessel after war is declared.

ART. XV. On the contrary, it is agreed, that whatever shall be found to be laden by the citizens of either party on any ship belonging to the enemies of the other, or their citizens, shall be confiscated without distinction of goods, contraband or not contraband, in the same manner as if it belonged to the enemy, except such goods and merchandizes as were put on board such ship before the declaration of war, or even after such declaration , if so be it were done without knowledge of such declaration ; so that the goods of the citizens of either party, whether they be of the nature of such as are prohibited, or otherwise, which, as is aforesaid, were put on board any ship belonging to an enemy, before the war, or after the declaration of the same, without the knowledge of it, shall no ways be liable to confiscation , but shall well and truly be restored without delay to the proprietors demanding the same ; but so as that if the said merchandizes be contraband , it shall not be any ways
lawful to carry them afterwards to any ports belonging to the enemy. The two contracting parties agree, that the term of two months being passed after the declaration of war, their respective citizens, from whatever part of the world they come, shall not plead the ignorance mentioned in this article.

Passports to be exhibited, and
aolfstohceerqtuiafilciattyes of goods.

ART. XVI. The merchant ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, which shall be bound to a port of the enemy of one of the parties, and concerning whose voyage, and the articles of their cargo, there shall be just grounds of suspicion , shall be obliged to exhibit, as well upon the high seas as in the ports or roads, not only their passports, but likewise their certificates, showing that their goods are not of the quality of those which are specified to be contraband in the thirteenth article of the present convention.

In time of war ART. XVII. And that captures on light suspicions may be avoided, and

ntehuetsrhailpnsaotifotnhe to be furnished
with passports mentioned in the fourth article.

injuries thence arising prevented, it is agreed, that when one party shall be engaged in war, and the other party be neuter, the ships of the neutral party shall be furnished with passports similar to that described in the fourth article, that it may appear thereby that the ships really belong to the citizens of the neutral party ; they shall be valid for any number of voyages, but shall be renewed every year, that is, if the ship happens

to return home in the space of a year. If the ships are laden, they shall be provided not only with the passports above mentioned , but also with certificates similar to those described in the same article, so that

it may be known whether they carry any contraband goods. No other

paper shall be required, any usage or ordinance to the contrary notwith-

standing. And if it shall not appear from the said certificates that

there are contraband goods on board, the ships shall be permitted to

If contraband goods found on board are de-
livered up, the ship may pur-
sue her voyage.

proceed on their voyage. If it shall appear from the certificates, that there are contraband goods on board any such ship, and the commander of the same shall offer to deliver them up, the offer shall be accepted, and the ship shall be at liberty to pursue its voyage, unless the quantity ofthe contraband goods be greater than can conveniently be received on board the ship of war or privateer, in which case, the

ship may be carried into port, for the delivery of the same.

If any ship shall not be furnished with such passport or certificates as are above required for the same, such case may be examined by a pro-

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

187

seraient ennemies de l'une le deux parties contractantes, et elles ne pourront être enlevées des dits navires libres, à moins qu'elles ne soyent militaires et actuellement au service de l'ennemi .
ART. XV. On est convenu, au contraire que tout ce qui se trouvera chargé par les citoyens respectifs , sur des navires appartenant aux ennemis de l'autre partie ou à leurs sujets, sera confisqué, sans distinctions des marchandises prohibées ou non prohibées, ainsi et de même que si elles appartenaient à l'ennemi, à l'exception toutefois des effets et marchandises qui auront été mis à bord des dits navires avant la declaration de guerre, ou même après la dite declaration , si , au moment du chargement, on a pu l'ignorer ; de manière que les marchandises des citoyens des deux parties, soit qu'elles se trouvent du nombre de celles de contrebande ou autrement, lesquelles, comme il vient d'ètre dit, auront été mises à bord d'un vaisseau appartenant à l'ennemi avant la guerre, ou même après la dite déclaration lorsqu'on l'ignorait, ne seront, en aucune manière, sujettes à confiscation, mais seront fidèlement et de bonne foi rendues, sans délai , à leurs propriétaires qui les réclameront ; bien entendu néanmoins qu'il ne soit pas permis de porter dans les ports ennemis les marchandises qui seront de contrebande. Les deux parties contractantes conviennent que le terme de deux mois passé depuis la déclaration de guerre, leurs citoyens respectifs, de quelque partie du monde qu'ils viennent, ne pourront plus alléguer l'ignorance dont il est question dans le présent article.
ART. XVI. Les navires marchands appartenant à des citoyens de l'une ou d'autre des deux parties contractantes, lorsqu'ils voudront passer dans le port de l'ennemi de l'une des deux parties, et que leur voyage ainsi que les effets de leur cargaison pourront donner de justes soupçons, les dits navires seront obligés d'exhiber en pleine mer, comme dans les ports ou rades, non seulement leurs passeports, mais encore leurs certificats prouvant que ces effets ne sont point de la même espèce que ceux de contrebande spécifiés dans l'article treize de la présente convention.
ART. XVII. Et afin d'éviter des captures sur des soupçons frivoles, et de prévenir les dommages qui en résultent, il est convenu que, quand une des deux parties sera en guerre et l'autre neutre, les navires de la partie neutre seront pourvus de passeports semblables à ceux spécifiés dans l'article quatre, de maniére qu'il puisse par là apparaitre que les navires appartiennent véritablement à la partie neutre. Ces passeports seront valides pour un nombre quelconque de voyages ; mais il seront renouvellés chaque année, si le navire retourne chez lui dans l'espace d'une année. Si ces navires sont chargés, ils seront pourvus non seulement des passeports sus mentionnés mais aussi de certificats semblables à ceux mentionnés au même article, de manière que l'on puisse connaitre s'il y a à bord des marchandises de contrebande. Il ne sera exigé aucune autre pièce, non obstant tous usages et règlemens contraires ; et s'il n'apparait pas par ces certificats qu'il y ait des marchandises de contrebande à bord , les navires seront laissés à leur destination. Si, au contraire, il apparait, par ces certificats, que les dits navires ayent des marchandises de contrebande à bord, et que le commandant offre de les délivrer , l'offre sera acceptée, et le navire sera remis en liberté de poursuivre son voyage ; à moins que la quantité de marchandises de contrebande ne soit trop grande pour pouvoir être prise convenablement à bord du vaisseau de guerre ou corsaire ; dans ce cas le navire pourra ètre amené dans le port pour y délivrer la dite marchandise.
Si un navire est trouvé sans avoir le passeport ou les certificats cidessus exigés, l'affaire sera examinée par les juges ou tribunaux com-

188

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

If there is no passport and other proofof the neutrality of the vessel ,no condemnation .
If master of the vessel dies, the ship and cargo shall be secure .

per judge or tribunal, and if it shall appear from other documents of proofs, admissible by the usage of nations, that the ship belongs to the citizens of the neutral party, it shall not be confiscated, but shall be released with her cargo (contraband goods excepted) and be permitted to proceed on her voyage.
If the master of a ship , named in the passport, should happen to die or be removed by any other cause, and another put in his place, the ship and cargo shall nevertheless be equally secure, and the passport remain in full force.

Ships of either nation if examined at sea, boats to be sent,
and ships of war or privateers to remain out of cannon shot.

ART. XVIII . If the ships of the citizens of either of the parties shall be met with, either sailing along the coasts, or on the high seas, by any ship of war or privateer of the other ; for the avoiding of any disorder, the said ships of war or privateers shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send their boats on board the merchant ship which they shall so meet with, and may enter her to the number of two or three men only, to whom the master or commander of such ship shall exhibit his pass-

port concerning the property of the ship, made out according to the

form prescribed in the fourth article. And it is expressly agreed that

the neutral party shall in no case be required to go on board the exa-

mining vessel for the purpose of exhibiting his papers, or for any other examination whatever.

Ships under convoy not to be examined.

ART. XIX . It is expressly agreed by the contracting parties, that the stipulations above mentioned, relative to the conduct to be observed on the sea by the cruisers of the belligerent party towards the ships of the neutral party, shall be applied only to ships sailing without convoy ; and when the said ships shall be convoyed, it being the intention of the parties to observe all the regard due to the protection of the flag displayed by public ships, it shall not be lawful to visit them : but the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, that the ships he convoys belong to the nation whose flag he carries, and that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be considered by the respective cruisers as fully sufficient : the two parties reciprocally engaging not to admit under the protection of their convoys, ships which shall carry contraband goods destined to an enemy.

Receipts to be ART. XX. In all cases where vessels shall be captured , or detained given for the under pretence of carrying to the enemy contraband goods, the captor papers ofcaptured vessels. shall give a receipt for such of the papers of the vessel as he shall

retain, which receipt shall be annexed to a descriptive list of the said

papers and it shall be unlawful to break up or open the hatches,

chests, trunks, casks, bales, or vessels, found on board, or remove the

smallest part of the goods, unless the lading be brought on shore in

Sale of cap-
tured vessels not to be made
without lawful

presence of the competent officers, and an inventory be made by them of the said goods. Nor shall it be lawful to sell, exchange or alienate the same in any manner, unless there shall have been lawful process,
and the competent judge or judges shall have pronounced against such

condemnation. goods sentence of confiscation, saving always the ship and the other

goods which it contains.

The master,
commander or
supercargo not to be removed.

ART. XXI. And that proper care may be taken of the vessel and cargo, and embezzlement prevented, it is agreed that it shall not be lawful to remove the master , commander or supercargo of any captured ship from on board thereof, either during the time the ship may be at sea after her capture, or pending the proceedings against her, or her cargo, or any thing relative thereto. And in all cases where a vessel
of the citizens of either party shall be captured , or seized , and held for adjudication , her officers, passengers and crew shall be hospitably

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

189

pétens ; et s'il conste par d'autres documens ou preuves admissibles par l'usage des nations, que le navire appartient à des citoyens de la partie neutre, il ne sera pas condamné, et il sera remis en liberte avec son chargement, la contrebande exceptée, et aura la liberté de poursuivre sa route.
Si le capitaine nommé dans le passeport du navire venait à mourir, ou à être oté par toute autre cause, et qu'un autre fut nommé à sa place, le navire et sa cargaison n'en seront pas moins en sûreté, et le passeport demeurera dans toute sa force.
ART. XVIII. Si les bâtimens des citoyens de l'une ou l'autre nation sont rencontrés le long des cotes, ou en pleine mer, par quelques vaisseaux de guerre ou corsaires de l'autre ; pour prévenir tout désordre, les dits vaisseaux ou corsaires se tiendront hors de la portée du canon et enverront leur canot à bord du navire marchand qu'ils auront rencontré : ils n'y pourront entrer qu'au nombre de deux ou trois hommes, et demander au patron ou capitaine du dit navire, exhibition du passeport concernant la propriété du dit navire, fait d'après la formule prescrite dans l'article quatre, ainsi que les certificats sus mentionnés relatifs à la cargaison. Il est expressément convenu que le neutre ne pourra être contraint d'aller à bord du vaisseau visitant pour y faire l'exhibition demandée des papiers ou pour toute autre information quelconque.
ART. XIX. Il est expressément convenu par les parties contractantes, que les stipulations ci-dessus , relatives à la conduite qui sera tenue à la mer par les croiseurs de la partie belligérante, envers les bâtimens de la partie neutre, ne s'appliqueront qu'aux bâtimens naviguant sans convoi ; et dans le cas où les dits bâtimens seraient convoyés, l'intention des parties étant d'observer tous les égards dus à la protection du pavillon aboré sur les vaisseaux publics, on ne pourra point en faire la visite. Mais la déclaration verbale du commandant de l'escorte , que les navires de son convoi appartiennent à la nation dont ils portent le pavillon, et qu'ils n'ont aucune contrabande à bord, sera regardée par les croiseurs respectifs comme pleinement suffisante ; les deux parties s'engageant réciproquement à ne point admettre sous la protection de leur convoi, des bâtimens qui porteraient des marchandises prohibées à une destination ennemie.
ART. XX . Dans le cas où les bâtimens seront pris ou arrêtés, sous prétexte de porter à l'ennemi quelqu'article de contrebande, le capteur donnera un reçu des papiers du bâtiment qu'il retiendra, lequel reçu sera joint à une liste énonciative des dits papiers : il ne sera point permis de forcer ni d'ouvrir les écoutilles, coffres, caisses, caissons, balles, ou vases trouvés à bord du dit navire, ni d'enlever la moindre chose des effets, avant que la cargaison ait été débarquée en présence des officiers compétens, qui feront un inventaire des dits effet ; ils ne pourront, en aucune manière être vendus, échangés ou aliénés, à moins qu'aprés une procédure légale, le juge ou les juges compétens n'ayent porté contre les dits effets sentence de confiscation ( en exceptant toujours le navire et les autres objets qu'il contient. )

ART. XXI. Pour que le bâtiment et la cargaison soyent surveillés avec soin, et pour empêcher les dégâts, il est arrêté que le patron , capitaine ou subrecargue du navire capturé, ne pourront être éloignés du bord, soit pendant que le navire sera en mer, aprés avoir été pris, soit pendant les procédures qui pourront avoir lieu contre lui, sa cargaison ou quelque chose y relative.
Dans le cas où le navire appartenant à des citoyens de l'une ou de autre partie serait pris, saisi et retenu pour être jugé , ses officiers,

190

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

Treatment of crew and pasBengers.

treated. They shall not be imprisoned or deprived of any part of their wearing apparel, nor of the possession and use of their money, not exceeding for the captain, supercargo and mate five hundred dollars each, and for the sailors and passengers, one hundred dollars each.

Prizes to be condemned by established prize courts.

ART. XXII. It is further agreed, that in all cases, the established courts for prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal of either of the parties shall pronounce judgment against any vessel or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reasons or motives on which
the same shall have been founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case , shall if demanded be delivered to the commander or agent of the said vessel,
without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

Damages by men of war or
privateers to be paid.

ART. XXIII. And that more abundant care may be taken for the security of the respective citizens of the contracting parties, and to prevent their suffering injuries by the men of war or privateers of either party, all commanders of ships of war and privateers, and all others the said citizens, shall forbear doing any damage to those of the other party, or committing any outrage against them, and if they act to the contrary they shall be punished, and shall also be bound in their persons and estates to make satisfaction and reparation for all damages and the interest thereof, of whatever nature the said damages may be.

Commanders
of privateers to give security.

For this cause all commanders of privateers, before they receive their commissions, shall hereafter be obliged to give before a competent judge, sufficient security by at least two responsible sureties, who have no interest in the said privateer, each of whom, together with the said commander shall be jointly and severally bound in the sum of seven thousand dollars or thirty six thousand eight hundred and twenty francs, or if such ships be provided with above one hundred and fifty seamen or soldiers, in the sum of fourteen thousand dollars or seventy three thousand six hundred and forty francs, to satisfy all damages and injuries, which the said privateer, or her officers, or men, or any of them, may do or commit during their cruise , contrary to the tenor of this convention, or to the laws and instructions for regulating their conduct ; and further, that in all cases of aggression the said commission shall be revoked and annulled.

Armed vessels
and prizes not to pay duties, and not to be examined.

ART. XXIV. When the ships of war of the two contracting parties, or those belonging to their citizens which are armed in war, shall be admitted to enter with their prizes the ports of either of the two parties, the said public or private ships as well as their prizes, shall not be obliged to pay any duty either to the officers of the place, the judges or any others ; nor shall such prizes, when they come to and enter the ports of either party, be arrested or seized, nor shall the officers ofthe
place make examination concerning the lawfulness of such prizes ; but they may hoist sail at any time and depart and carry their prizes to the places expressed in their commissions, which the commanders of such ships of war shall be obliged to shew. It is always understood that the stipulations of this article shall not extend beyond the privileges of the most favored nation.

Restrictions on
oreign privaleers.

ART. XXV. It shall not be lawful for any foreign privateers who have commissions from any prince or state in enmity with either nation , to fit their ships in the ports of either nation, to sell their prizes, or in any manner to exchange them ; neither shall they be allowed to purchase provisions, except such as shall be necessary for their going to the nex

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

191

passagers et équipage seront traités avec humanité ; ils ne pourront être emprisonnés, ni dépouillés de leurs vêtemens, ni de l'argent à leur usage, qui ne pourra excéder, pour le capitaine, le subrecargue, et le second, cinq cents dollars chacun ; et pour les matelots et passagers, cent dollars chacun.
ART. XXII . Il est de plus convenu que dans tous les cas, les tribunaux établis pour les causes de prises dans les pays où les prises seront conduites, pourront seuls en prendre connaissance ; et quelques jugement que le tribunal de l'une ou de l'autre partie prononce contre quelques navires ou marchandises ou propriétés réclameés par des citoyens de l'autre partie, la sentence ou décret fera mention des raisons ou motifs qui ont déterminé ce jugement, dont copie authentique, ainsi que de toute la procédure y relative, sera, à leur réquisition, délivrée, sans délai , au capitaine ou agent du dit navire, moyennant le payement des frais.
ART. XXIII. Et afin de pourvoir plus efficacement à la surete respective des citoyens des deux parties contractantes, et prévenir les torts qu'ils auraient à craindre des vaisseaux de guerre ou corsaires, de l'une ou l'autre partie, tous commandans des vaisseaux de guerre et de corsaires, et tous autres citoyens de l'une des deux parties, s'abstiendront de tout dommage envers les citoyens de l'autre et de toute insulte envers leurs personnes. S'ils faisaient le contraire, ils seront punis, et tenus à donner, dans leurs personnes et propriétés, satisfaction et réparation pour les dommages, avec intérêt, de quelque espèce que soyent les dits dommages.
A cet effet, tous capitaines de corsaires, avant de recevoir leurs commissions, s'obligeront, devant un juge compétent, à donner une garantie au moins par deux cautions responsables, lesquelles n'auront aucu intérêt sur le dit corsaire, et dont chacune, ainsi que le capitaine, s'engagera particulièrement et solidairement pour la somme de sept mille dollars ou trente six mille huit cent vingt francs ; et si les dits vaisseaux portent plus de cent cinquante Matelots ou Soldats, pour la somme de quatorze mille dollars ou soixante treize mille six cent quarante francs, qui serviront à reparer les torts ou dommages que les dits corsaires, leurs officiers, équipages ou quelqu'un d'eux auraient fait ou commis pendant leur croisière, de contraire aux dispositions de la presénte convention, ou aux lois et instructions qui devront être la règle de leur conduite en outre, les dites commissions seront révoquées et annullées dans tous les cas où il y aura en aggression .
ART. XXIV. Lorsque les vaisseaux de guerre des deux parties contractantes, ou ceux que leurs citoyens auraient armés en guerre, seront admis à relâcher, avec leurs prises, dans les ports de l'une des deux parties, les dits vaisseaux publics ou particuliers, de même que leurs prises, ne seront obligés à payer aucun droit, soit aux officiers du lieu, soit aux juges ou à tous autres ; les dites prises entrant dans les havres ou ports de l'une des deux parties, ne pourront être arrêtées ou saisies, et les officiers des lieux ne pourront prendre connaissance de la validité des dites prises, lesquelles pourront sortir et être conduites en toute franchise et liberté aux lieux portés par les commissions dont les capitaines des dits vaisseaux seront obligés de faire apparoir. Il est toujours entendu que les stipulations de cet article ne s'etendront pas au delà des privilèges des nations les plus favorisées.
ART. XXV. Tous corsaires étrangers ayant des commissions d'un Etat ou Prince en guerre avec l'une ou l'autre nation, ne pourront armer leurs vaisseaux dans les ports de l'une ou l'autre nation, non plus qu'y vendre leurs prises, ni les échanger en aucune manière : il ne leur sera permis d'acheter des provisions que la quantité nécessaire pour

192

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

port of that prince or state, from which they have received their commissions.

Pirates to be

ART. XXVI. It is further agreed, that both the said contracting par-

prohibited en- ties shall not only refuse to receive any pirates into any of their ports,

toefreiintghetrhenaptoirotns. havens or towns, or permit any of their inhabitants to receive, protect, harbor, conceal or assist them in any manner, but will bring to condign

punishment all such inhabitants as shall be guilty of such acts or offences

The ships and
goods taken by pirates to be seized .

And all their ships, with the goods or merchandises, taken by them and brought into the port of either of the said parties, shall be seized as far as they can be discovered, and shall be restored to the owners or their factors or agents duly authorised by them ; (proper evidence being

first given before competent judges for proving the property ;) even in

case such effects should have passed into other hands by sale, if it be

proved that the buyers knew or had good reason to believe, or suspect

that they had been piratically taken.

The fisheries of either party not to be interfered with.
Ratifications exchanged within six months.

ART. XXVII. Neither party will intermeddle in the fisheries of the other on its coasts, nor disturb the other in the exercise of the rights which it now holds or may acquire on the coast of Newfoundland, in the Gulph of St. Lawrence, or elsewhere, on the American coast, northward of the United States. But the whale and seal fisheries shall be free to both in every quarter of the world.
This convention shall be ratified on both sides in due form, and the ratifications exchanged in the space of six months or sooner if possible.
In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles both in the French and English languages, and they have thereto affixed their seals : declaring nevertheless that the signing in the two languages shall not be brought into precedent, nor in any way operate to the prejudice of either party.

Done at Paris the eighth day of Vendemaire of the ninth year of the French Republic, the thirtieth day of September, Anno Domini eighteen hundred.

(Signed, )

J. BONAPARTE. C. P. FLEURIEU. ROEDERER . O. ELLSWORTH. W. R. DAVIE. W. V. MURRAY.

(L. S.) (L. s.) (L. S. ) (L. S. (L. S.) (L S.)

This convention to be in force for eight years.

AND WHEREAS , the Senate of the United States did by their resolution, on the 3d day of this present month of February , two thirds of the Senators then present concurring, consent to and advise the ratification of the said convention : Provided the second article be expunged, and that the following article be added or inserted : " It is agreed that the present convention shall be in force for the term of eight years from the time of the exchange of the ratifications."
NOW THEREFORE, I, John Adams, President of the United States of America, having seen and considered the Convention and additional article above recited , do, in pursuance of the aforesaid advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States, by these presents accept, ratify and confirm the said Convention and additional article and every clause and article thereof, as the same are herein before set forth, saving and excepting the second article of the said Convention , which I hereby declare to be expunged and of no force or validity ; and I do moreover hereby declare, that the said Convention, saving the second article as

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

193

gagner le port le plus voisin de l'Etat ou Prince duquel ils ont reçu leurs commissions.
ART. XXVI. Il est de plus convenu qu'aucune des deux parties contractantes non seulement ne recevra point de pirates dans ces ports, rades ou villes, et ne permettra pas qu'aucun de ses habitans les reçoive, protège, accueille ou recèle en aucune manière, mais encore livrera à un juste châtiment ceux de ses habitans qui seraient coupables de pareils faits ou délits. Les vaisseaux de ces pirates, ainsi que les effets et marchandises par eux pris et amenés dans les ports de l'une ou l'autre nation, seront saisis par tout où ils seront découverts et restitués à leurs propriétaires, agens ou facteurs duement autorisés par eux, après toutefois qu'ils auront prouvé devant les juges compétens le droit de proprieté.
Que si les dits effets avaient passé, pavente, en d'autres mains, et que les acquéleurs fussent ou pussent être instruits ou soupçonnaient que les dits effets avaient été enlevês par des pirates, ils seront également restitués.
ART. XXVII. Aucune des deux nations ne viendra participer aux pêcheries de l'autre sur ses cotes, ni la troubler dans l'exercise des droits qu'elle a maintenant ou pourrait acquérir sur les cotes de Terre neuve, dans le golfe de St. Laurent, ou par tout ailleurs, sur les cotes d'Amêrique au nord des Etats-Unis ; mais la pêche de la baleine et du veau marin sera libre pour les deux nations dans toutes les parties du monde. Cette convention sera ratifiée de part et d'autre en bonne et due forme et les ratifications seront êchangêes dans l'espace de six mois, ou plutot, s'il est possible.
En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signê les articles ci-dessus, tant en langue Française, qu'en langue Anglaise, et ils y ont apposé leurs sceau, déclarant néanmoins que la signature en deux langues ne sera point citée comme exemple, et ne préjudiciera à aucune des deux parties.

Fait à Paris, le huitième Jour de Vendémiaire de l'an neuf de la République Française et le trentième Jour de Septembre mil huit cent.

(Signé :)

J. BONAPARTE. C. P. FLEURIEU. ROEDERER. O. ELLSWORTH. W. R. DAVIE. W. V. MURRAY.

APPROUVE la convention ci-dessus en tous et chacun des articles qui y sont contenus ; déclare qu'elle est acceptée, ratifiée et confirmée et promet qu'elle sera inviolablement observée.
Le gouvernement des Etats-Unis ayant ajouté dans sa ratification que la convention sera en vigueur l'espace de huit années, et ayant omis l'article second, le gouvernement de la République Française consent à accepter, ratifier et confirmer la convention ci-dessus, avec l'addition portant que la convention sera en vigueur pendant l'espace de huit années, et avec le retranchement de l'article second : bien entendu que par ce retranchement les deux Etats renoncent aux prétentions respectives qui sont l'objet du dit article.

En foi de quoi sont données les présentes, signées, contre-signées, et

scellées du grand sceau de la République.

VOL. VIII. 25

R

194

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

aforesaid, and the said additional article, form together one instrument, and are a convention between the United States of America, and the French Republic, made by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof.

In TESTIMONY whereof, I have caused the seal of the United (L. S.) States of America to be hereto affixed .

GIVEN under my hand at the City of Washington, this 18th day of

February in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and

one, and of the Independence of the said States the twenty-fifth.

(Signed)

JOHN ADAMS.

By the President,

JOHN MARSHALL , Acting as Secretary of State.

And whereas the said convention was on the other part ratified and confirmed by the First Consul of France in the form of which the following is a translation from the French language, to wit :
Bonaparte, First Consul , in the name of the French People-The consuls of the Republic, having seen and examined the Convention concluded, agreed to, and signed at Paris, the 8th Vendemiaire, 9th year of the French Republic, (30th September 1800) by the citizens Joseph Bonaparte, Fleurieu and Roederer, counsellors of state, in virtue of the full powers which have been given to them to this effect, with Messieurs Ellsworth, Davie, and Murray, ministers plenipotentiary of the United States, equally furnished with full powers, the tenor of which Convention follows : -[ Here follows the Treaty . ]
Approves the above Convention in all and each of the articles which are therein contained ; declares that it is accepted , ratified and confirmed, and promises that it shall be inviolably observed.
The government of the United States having added in its ratification , that the Convention should be in force for the space of eight years, and having omitted the second article, the government of the French Republic consents to accept, ratify and confirm the above convention, with the addition importing that the Convention shall be in force for the space of eight years, and with the retrenchment of the second article : Provided that by this retrenchment the two States renounce the respective pretentions, which are the object of the said article.
IN FAITH whereof these presents are given. Signed, countersigned and sealed with the great seal of the Republic , at Paris,the twelfth Thermidor, ninth year of the Republic ( 31st July 1801. )

(Signed)

BONAPARTE.

The Minister of Exterior Relations,

(Signed)

CH MAU. TALLEYRAND .

By the First Consul, The Secretary of State,
(Signed)

HUGUES B. MARET.

Final ratifica1t9i.on1D8e01c.ember

WHICH ratifications were duly exchanged at Paris on the 31st day of July in the present year, and having been so exchanged were again submitted to the Senate of the United States, who on the 19th day of the present month resolved that they considered the said Convention as fully ratified, and returned the same to the President for the usual promulgation. Now THEREFORE to the end that the said convention may

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1800.

195

A PARIS le douze Thermidor an neuf de la République (trent un Juillet, mil huit cent un.)
BONAPARTE.

Le Ministre des Relations Extérieures, CH. MAU. TALLEYRAND.

Par le Premier Consul : Le Secretaire d'Etat, HUGUES B. MARET.
La présente convention a été échangée par les ministres sous-signés, munis de pleins pouvoirs à cet effet, à Paris ce douze Thermidor an neuf (trente et un Juillet, mille huit cent un.)

JOSEPH BONAPARTE. C. P. CLARET FLEURIEU. P.L. ROEDERER.

W V. MURRAY.

196

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1802.

be observed and performed with good faith on the part of the United States, I have caused the premises to be made public, and I do hereby enjoin and require all persons bearing office, civil or military, within the United States, and all others, citizens or inhabitants thereof, or being within the same, faithfully to observe and fulfil the said Convention and every clause and article thereof.
IN TESTIMONY whereof I have caused the seal of the United States (L. S.) thoanbde. affixed to these presents, and signed the same with my

Done at the city of Washington, the twenty-first day of December in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and one, and of
the sovereignty and independence of the United States the twentysixth.
TH : JEFFERSON.

By the President,

JAMES MADISON, Secretary of State.

CONVENTION

Between the United States and Great-Britain . (a)

Jan. 8, 1802. DIFFICULTIES having arisen in the execution of the sixth article of Preamble. the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation, concluded at London on Treaty of 19th the fourth day of November, one thousand seven hundred and ninety7N.ov. 1791 , art. four, ( b) between his Britannic majesty and the United States of Ame-
rica, and in consequence thereof the proceedings of the commissioners under the seventh article of the same treaty having been suspended ;
the parties to the said treaty being equally desirous, as far as may be, to obviate such difficulties, have respectively named Plenipotentiaries to treat and agree respecting the same ; that is to say, his Britannic majesty has named for his plenipotentiary , the right honorable Robert Banks Jenkinson, commonly called Lord Hawkesbury, one of his majesty's most honorable Privy Council , and his principal Secretary of State for foreign affairs : and the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, has named , for their plenipotentiary Rufus King, Esquire, minister plenipotentiary of the said United States to his Britannic majesty, who have agreed to and concluded the following Articles :

The sixth arti-
cle annulled, except, & c. the U. S. agree to
pay £600,000 sterling in annual instal-
ments of £200 200 each.

ARTICLE I. In satisfaction and discharge of the money which the United States might have been liable to pay in pursuance of the pro-
visions of the said sixth article , which is hereby declared to be cancelled and annulled, except so far as the same may relate to the execution of the said seventh article, the United States of America hereby engage to pay, and his Britannic majesty consents to accept for the use of the persons described in the said sixth article , the sum of six hun-

(a) See notes of the Treaties and Conventions with Great Britain, ante, page 54. (b) Ante, page 116.

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1802.

197

dred thousand pounds sterling, payable at the times and place, and in the manner following, that is to say : the said sum of six hundred thousand pounds sterling shall be paid at the city of Washington, in three annual instalments of two hundred thousand pounds sterling each , and to such person or persons, as shall be authorised by his Britannic
majesty to receive the same ; the first of the said instalments to be paid at the expiration of one year, the second instalment at the expiration of two years, and the third and last instalment at the expiration of three years, next following the exchange of the ratifications of this convention. And to prevent any disagreement concerning the rate of ex-
changes, the said payments shall be made in the money of the said United States ; reckoning four dollars and forty-four cents to be equal to one pound sterling.
ART. II. Whereas it is agreed by the fourth Article of the definitive The fourth artreaty of Peace, concluded at Paris on the third day of September one ticle of the treathousand seven hundred and eighty-three between his Britannic majesty t1y78o3f, preelaacteiveofto and the United States, that creditors on either side should meet with no private debts, lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in sterling money of croecnofginrimzeedd. and all bona fide debts theretofore contracted ; it is hereby declared, that the said fourth article, so far as respects its future operation, is hereby recognized, confirmed and declared to be binding and obligatory on his Britannic majesty and the said United States, and the same shall be accordingly observed with punctuality and good faith, and so as that the said creditors shall hereafter meet with no lawful impediment to
the recovery of the full value in sterling money of their bona fide debts.

ART. III. It is furthermore agreed and concluded that the commis- Commissionsioners appointed in pursuance of the seventh article of the said treaty ers to execute of amity, commerce and navigation, and whose proceedings have been tshiegndeudtiteostahse-m suspended as aforesaid, shall, immediately after the signature of this bythe 7th articonvention, reassemble and proceed in the execution of their duties ac- cle ofthe treaty cording to the provisions of the said seventh article ; except only that of 1794. instead of the sums awarded by the said commissioners being made payable at the time or times by them appointed, all sums of money by them awarded to be paid to American or British claimants, according
to the provisions of the said seventh article, shall be made payable in three equal instalments, the first whereof, to be paid at the expiration of one year, the second at the expiration of two years, and the third and last at the expiration of three years next after the exchange of the ratifications of this convention.

ART. IV. This convention , when the same shall have been ratified by his majesty, and by the President of the United States, by and with
the advice and consent of the senate thereof, and the respective ratifications duly exchanged, shall be binding and obligatory upon his majesty and the said United States.

Ratification of this convention

In faith whereof, We the undersigned plenipotentiaries of his Britannic majesty and of the United States of America , by virtue of our respective full powers, have signed the present convention , and have caused the seals of our arms to be affixed thereto.

Done at London, the eighth day of January one thousand eight hundred and two.
HAWKESBURY, ( L. S.) RUFUS KING, (L. S. )

R2

A CONVENTION

Aug. 11 , 1802.
Convention
with Spain ratified bythe U. S. Jan. 9 , 1804, and bythe King of Spain, July 9, 1818.
The parties wish to adjust claims amica-
bly.

Between his Catholic Majesty and the United States of America, for the indemnification of those who have sustained losses, damages, or injuries, in consequences of the excesses of individuals, of either nation, during the late war, contrary to the existing treaty, or the laws of nations. (a)
His Catholic Majesty, and the government of the United States of America, wishing amicably to adjust the claims which have arisen from the excesses committed during the late war, by individuals of either nation, contrary to the laws of nations or the treaty existing between the two countries : his Catholic Majesty has given, for this purpose, full powers to his Excellency, Dr Pedro Cevallos, Counsellor of State, Gen-

tleman of the Bed Chamber in employment, first Secretary of State and universal despatch, and Superintendent General of the Posts and Post Offices, in Spain and the Indies ; and the government of the United States of America to Charles Pinckney, a citizen of the said States, and their Minister Plenipotentiary near his Catholic Majesty, who have agreed as follows : (b)

A board of five commissioners to be
appointed.

1. A Board of Commissioners shall be formed , composed of five Commissioners, two of whom shall be appointed by his Catholic Majesty, two others by the government of the United States, and the fifth by common consent ; and in case they should not be able to agree on a person for the fifth Commissioner, each party shall name one, and leave the decision to lot : And hereafter, in case of the death, sickness or necessary absence, of any of those already appointed , they shall proceed in the same manner, to the appointment of persons to replace them .

Commission. ers to take an oath .

2. The appointment of the Commissioners being thus made, each one of them shall take an oath to examine, discuss, and decide on , the claims, which they are to judge, according to the laws of nations and

the existing treaty, and with the impartiality justice may dictate.

Commission- 3. The Commissioners shall meet and hold their sessions in Madrid, ers to meet and where, within the term of eighteen months (to be reckoned from the sit at Madrid, day on which they may assemble) they shall receive all claims, which,
r&ecce. ive claims, in consequence of this Convention , may be made, as well bythe subjects

of his Catholic Majesty, as by the citizens of the United States of

America, who may have a right to demand compensation for the losses,

damages, or injuries, sustained by them , in consequence of the excesses

committed by Spanish subjects or American citizens.

Commission . ers may examine every
question on oath .
No appeal from the commissioners.

4. The Commissioners are authorized, by the said contracting par:
ties, to hear and examine, on oath , every question relative to the said demands, and to receive, as worthy of credit, all testimony, the authenticity of which cannot reasonably be doubted .
5. From the decisions of the Commissioners there shall be no appeal ; and the agreement of three of them shall give full force and effect to their decisions, as well with respect to the justice of the claims , as

to the amount of the indemnification which may be adjudged to the

a) See notes of the treaties between the United States and Spain, ante, page 138. (b) This convention was annulled by the tenth article of the Treaty with Spain of February 22, 1819, post, 260.
( 198)

CONVENCION
Entre su Magestad Catolica y los Estados Unidos de America, sobre indemnizacion de perdidas, daños y perjuicios irrogados durante la ultima guerra en conseqüencia de los excesos cometidos por individuos de ambas naciones, contra el derecho de gentes ó tradado existente.
DESEANDO SU Magestad Catolica y el gobierno de los Estados Unidos de America, ajustar amistosamente les demandas que han ocasionado los excesos cometidos durante la ultima guerra por individuos de una y otra nacion, contra el derecho de gentes ó el tradado existente entre los dos paises ; ha dado su Magestad Catolica plenos poderes á este efecto á Do Pedro Cevallos, su Consejero de Estado, Gentilhombre de Camara con exercicio, primer Secretario de Estado y del despacho universal Superintendente General de Correos y Postas en España é Indias ; y el gobierno de los Estados Unidos de America á D Carlos Pinckney, ciudadano de dichos Estados y su Ministro Plenipotenciario cerca de su Magestad Catolica, quienes han convenido en lo siguiente :
1. Se formará una junta compuesta de cinco vocales de los quales, dos serán nombrados por su Magestad Catolica, otros dos por el gobierno de los Estados Unidos, y el quinto de comun consentimiento ; y en el caso de no poderse convenir en el sugeto para quinto vocal , nombrará uno cada parte dexando la eleccion entre los dos á la suerte, y se procederá en la misma forma en adelante al nombramiento ulterior de los sugetos que reemplazaren á los que actualmente lo son en los casos de muerte, enfermedad ó precisa ausencia.
2. Hecho asi el nombramiento prestará cada uno de los vocales el juramento de examinar, discutir, y sentenciar las demandas sobre que jurgaren con arreglo al drô, de gentes y tratado existente, y con la imparcialidad que dicta la justicia.
3. Residirán los vocales y celebrerán la juntas en Madrid, en donde en el prefixo termino de diez y ocho meses, contados desde el dia en q se junten, admitirán todas las demandas q á conseqüencia de esta Convencion hicieren tanto los vasallos de su Magestad Catolica como los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America, que tuvieren derecho, á reclamar perdidas, daños y perjuicios, en conseqüencia de los execessos cometidos por Espanoles y ciudadanos de dichos Estados durante la ultima guerra contra el drô de gentes y tratado existente.
4. Se autoriza por dichas partes contratantes á los vocalas para oir y examinar baxo la sancion del juramento qualezquiera puntos concernientes á las referidas demandas y á recibir como digno de fé todo testimonio de cuya autenticidad no puede dudarse con fundamento.
5. Bastara el acuerdo de trés vocales para que sus sentencias tengan fuerza de irrevocables y sin apelacion tanto por lo que respecta á la justicia de las demandas, como por lo qe hace á las cantidades qº se adjudicaren p'r indemnizacion á los demandantes ; pues se obligan las
(199)

200

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

Awards to be paid in specie.
Rights found. ed on claims originating from excesses of foreign cruisers, reserved by each party.
Convention effective on exchange ofratifications.

claimaints ; the said contracting parties obliging themselves to satisfy the said awards in specie, without deduction , at the times and places pointed out, and under the conditions which may be expressed by the Board of Commissioners.
6. It not having been possible for the said Plenipotentiaries to agree upon a mode by which the above mentioned Board of Commissioners should arbitrate the claims originating from the excesses of foreign cruizers, agents, consuls, or tribunals, in their respective territories, which might be imputable to their two governments, they have expressly agreed that each government shall reserve ( as it does by this Convention) to itself, its subjects or citizens, respectively, all the rights which they now have, and under which they may hereafter bring forward their claims, at such times as may be most convenient to them .
7. The present Convention shall have no force or effect until it be ratified by the contracting parties, and the ratification shall be exchanged as soon as possible.

In faith whereof, we, the underwritten Plenipotentiaries, have signed this Convention, and have affixed thereto our respective seals.

Done at Madrid, this 11th day of August, 1802.

PEDRO CEVALLOS.

(L. S.)

CHARLES PINCKNEY. (L. 8.)

TREATY

Between the United States of America and the French Republic. (a)

April 30, 1803. THE President of the United States of America, and the First Con-

Desire of the
parties to remove all sources of misunder-
standing relative to the con-
struction of the treaty of Madrid, & c. & c.

sul of the French Republic, in the name of the French people, desiring to remove all source of misunderstanding relative to objects of discussion mentioned in the second and fifth articles of the convention of the
8th Vendémiaire, an . 9 ( 30th September, 1800) relative to the rights claimed by the United States, in virtue of the treaty concluded at Madrid, the 27th of October, 1795, between his Catholic Majesty and the said United States, and willing to strengthen the union and friendship which at the time of the said convention was happily re-established be-

tween the two nations, have respectively named their plenipotentiaries,

to wit : the President of the United States [ of America, ] by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said states , Robert R.

Livingston, minister plenipotentiary of the United States, and James

Monroe, minister plenipotentiary and envoy extraordinary of the said

states, near the government of the French Republic ; and the First

Consul, in the name of the French people, citizen Francis Barbé Mar-

bois, minister of the public treasury , who, after having respectively ex-

changed their full powers, have agreed to the following articles .

ARTICLE I. Whereas, by the article the third of the treaty concluded at St. Ildelfonso, the 9th Vendémiaire, an. 9 ( 1st October, 1800) be.

(a) For notes ofthe Treaties and Conventions between the United States and France , see page 6.

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

201

partes contratantes á satisfacerlas en especie, sin rebaxa, en las epocas y parages señalados, y baxo las condiciones q se expresaren en las sentencias de la junta.
6. No haviendo sido posible ahora á dhos Plenipotenciarios convenirse en el modo de q la referida junta arbitrase las reclamaciones originadas en conseqüencia de los excesos de los corsarios, agentes, consules, ó tribunales, extrangeros en los respectivos territorios, qe fueren imputables á los dos goviernos : se han convenido expresamente en que cada gobierno se reserve, como por esta Convencion se hace, para si, sus vasallos y ciudadanos respectivamente todas los diôs q ahora les asistan , y en que promuevan en adelante sus reclamaciones en el tiempo q les acomodare.
7. La presente Convencion no tendrá ningun valor ni efecto hasta que se haya ratificado por las partes contratantes, y se cangearán las ratificaciones lo mas pronto que sea posible.
En fé de loqual, nosotros los ynfrascriptos Plenipotenciarios, hemos firmado esta Convencion, y hemos puesto nuestros sellos respectivos.
Hecho en Madrid, á 11 de Agosto, de 1802.

PEDRO CEVALLOS.

(L. 8.

CHARLES PINCKNEY. (L. S.)

TRAITÉ
Entre les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et la République
Française.
LE President des Etats-Unis d'Amerique et le Premier Consul de la République Française, au nom du Peuple Française, désirant prevenir tout sujet de més intelligence rélativement aux objets de discussion mentionnés dans les Articles 2 et 5 de la Convention du (8 Vendemiaire an. 9, 30 7bre 1800 ,) et rélativement aux droits réclamés pour les Etats-Unis en vertu du Tráité conclu à Madrid le 27 Octobre 1793, entre Sa Majesté Catholique et les dits Etats-Unis : et voulant fortifier de plus en plus les rapports d'union et d'amitié qui , à l'époque de la ditte convention, ont été heureusement rétablis entre les deux Etats, ont respectivement nommé pour Plénipotentiaires, Savoir : Le Président des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Senat des dits Etats, Robert R. Livingston, Ministre Plénipotentiaire des Etats-Unis, et James Munroé, Ministre Plénipotentiaire et envoyé extraordinaire des dits Etats, auprès du gouvernement de la République Francaise et le Premier Consul au nom du peuple Français, le Citoyen François Barbé-Marbois, Ministre du Trésor Public : Lesquels après avoir fait l'échange de leurs pleins-pouvoirs sont convenus des Articles suivans :
ART. Ier Attendu que par l'article 3 du-Tráité conclu à St. Ildefonse le 9 Vendemiaire an . 9, ( Ir Octobre , 1800 , ) entre le Premier Consul de
VOL. VIII. 26

202

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

Retrocession from Spain to France stated.

tween the First Consul of the French Republic and his Catholic Majesty, it was agreed as follows : "His Catholic Majesty promises and engages on his part, to cede to the French Republic , six months after
the full and entire execution of the conditions and stipulations herein relative to his royal highness the duke of Parma, the colony or province of Louisiana, with the same extent that it now has in the hands of Spain, and that it had when France possessed it ; and such as it should be after the treaties subsequently entered into between Spain and other states." And whereas, in pursuance of the treaty, and particularly of

the third article, the French Republic has an incontestible title to the domain and to the possession of the said territory : The First Consul of the French Republic desiring to give to the United States a strong proof of his friendship , doth hereby cede to the said United States, in the name of the French Republic, forever and in full sovereignty, the said territory with all its rights and appurtenances, as fully and in the same manner as they have been acquired by the French Republic, in virtue of the above-mentioned treaty, concluded with his Catholic Majesty.

Islands, & c.
included in the cession by the
preceding articles.

ART. II. In the cession made by the preceding article are included the adjacent islands belonging to Louisiana, all public lots and squares, vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications, barracks, and other edifices which are not private property.-The archives, papers, and documents, relative to the domain and sovereignty of Louisiana, and its dependences, will be left in the possession of the commissaries of the United States, and copies will be afterwards given in due form to the magistrates and municipal officers, of such of the said papers and documents as may be necessary to them.

Inhabitants of
the ceded territory incorporated in the Union upon
certain principles.

ART. III. The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States, and admitted as soon as possi-
ble, according to the principles of the Federal constitution , to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States ; and in the mean time they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion which they profess.

A commissary
tForabnecesetnotrfer-om ceive the province of Louisi iatnoav, earntdo ttohpeass U. S.

ART. IV. There shall be sent by the government of France a commissary to Louisiana, to the end that he do every act necessary, as well to receive from the officers of his Catholic Majesty the said country and its dependences, in the name of the French Republic, if it has not been already done, as to transmit it in the name of the French Republic to the commissary or agent of the United States.

When the commissaries ofthe U. S. shall have pos. Bession.

ART. V. Immediately after the ratification of the present treaty by the President of the United States, and in case that of the First Consul shall have been previously obtained, the commissary of the French Republic shall remit all the military posts of New Orleans, and other parts of the ceded territory, to the commissary or commissaries named by the President to take possession ; the troops, whether of France or Spain, who may be there, shall cease to occupy any military post from the time of taking possession , and shall be embarked as soon as possible, in the course of three months after the ratification of this treaty.

U. S. to exe. iuatne tcreerattaiiens.In

ART. VI. The United States promise to execute such treaties and articles as may have been agreed between Spain and the tribes and na-
tions of Indians , until, by mutual consent of the United States and the said tribes or nations, other suitable articles shall have been agreed upon .

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

203

la République Française et Sa Majesté Catholique, il a été convenu ce qui suit :
"Sa Majesté Catholique promit et s'engage de son côté, a rétrocéder à la République Française, six mois après l'exécution pleine et entierè des conditions et stipulations ci-dessus, relatives à son altesse Royale le Duc de Parme, la Colonie ou Province de la Louisiane, avec la même étendue qu'elle a actuellement entre les mains de l'Espagne, et qu'elle avoit lorsque la France la possédoit, et telle qu'elle doit être d'après les traités passés subséquemment entre l'Espagne et d'autres Etats."
Et comme par suite du dit tráité, et spécialement du dit article 3, la République Française a un titre incontestable au domaine et à la possession du dit territoire, le Premier Consul de la République désirant de donner un témoignage remarquable de son amitié aux dits EtatsUnis, il leur fait, au nom de la République Française , cession , à toujours et en pleine souveraineté, du dit territoire, avec tous ses droits et appurtenances, ainsi et de la manierè qu'ils ont été acquis par la République Française, en vertu du traité sus dit, conclu avec sa Majesté Catholique.
ART. II. Dans la cession faite par l'article précédent, sont compris les isles adjacentes dépendantes de la Louisiane, les emplacemens et places publiques , les terreins vacans, tous les batimens publics, fortifications, cazernes et autres édifices qui ne sont la propriété d'aucun individu. Les archives, papiers et documens directement relatifs au domaine et à la soveraineté de la Louisiane et dépendances, seront laisses en la possession des commissaires des Etats-Unis , et il sera, ensuite, remis des expeditions en bonne forme aux magistrats et administrateurs locaux, de ceux des dits papiers et documens qui leur seront nécessaries.
ART. III. Les habitans des territoires cédés seront incorporés dans l'union des Etats-Unis, et admis, aussitôt qu'il sera possible, d'après les principes de la constitution fédérale à la jouissance des tous les droits, avantages et immunités des citoyens des Etats-Unis, et en attendant, ils seront maintenus et protégés dans le jouissance de leurs libertés , propriétés, et dans l'exercice des religions qu'ils professent.

ART. IV. Il sera envoyé de la part du gouvernement Français un Commissaire à la Louisiane, à l'effet de faire tous les actes nécessaires, tant pour recevoir des officiers de sa Majesté Catholique, les dits pays, contrées et dépendences, au nom de la République Française , si la chose n'est pas encore faite, que pour les transmettre, au dit nom, aux commissaires ou agens des Etats-Unis.
ART. V. Immédiatement après la ratification du présent traité par le Président des Etats-Unis, et dans le cas où celle du Premier Consul aurait eu préalablement lieu, le Commissaire de la République Française remettra tous les postes militaires de la Nouvelle Orléans, et autres parties du territoire cédé, au Commissaire ou aux Commissaires nommés par le Président, pour la prise de possession. Les troupes Françaises ou Espagnoles qui s'y trouveront, cesseront d'occuper les postes militaires du moment de la prise de possession , et seront embarquées aussitôt que faire se pourra, dans le courant des trois mois qui suivront la ratification du traité.
ART. VI. Les Etats-Unis promettent d'exécuter les traités et articles qui pouvraient avoir été convenus entre l'Espagne et les tribus et nations Indigénes, jusqu'à ce que, du consentement mutual des EtatsUnis, d'une part , et des Indigenes, de l'autre, il y ait été substitué tels autres articles qui seront jugés convenables.

204

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

Vessels of France and
Spain laden with the produc-
tions of their respective countries entitled to
same privileges as vessels of II S. & c.

ART. VII. As it is reciprocally advantageous to the commerce of France and the United States to encourage the communication of both nations for a limited time in the country ceded by the present treaty, until general arrangements relative to the commerce of both nations may be agreed on ; it has been agreed between the contracting parties, that the French ships coming directly from France or any of her colonies, loaded only with the produce and manufactures of France or her said colonies ; and the ships of Spain coming directly from Spain or

any of her colonies, loaded only with the produce or manufactures of

Spain or her colonies, shall be admitted during the space of twelve years

in the ports of New Orleans, and in all other legal ports of entry with-

in the ceded territory, in the same manner as the ships of the United

States coming directly from France or Spain, or any of their colonics,

without being subject to any other or greater duty on merchandize, or other or greater tonnage than that paid by the citizens of the United

States.

No other vessels entitled to same privilege during said period.
Vessels of France to be upon the footing of those ofthe most favoured nations.

During the space of time above mentioned , no other nation shall have a right to the same privileges in the ports of the ceded territory : the twelve years shall commence three months after the exchange of ratifications, if it shall take place in France, or three months after it shall have been notified at Paris to the French government, if it shall take place in the United States ; it is however well understood that the object of the above article is to favor the manufactures, commerce, freight and navigation of France and of Spain, so far as relates to the importations that the French and Spanish shall make into the said ports ofthe United States, without in any sort affecting the regulations that the United States may make concerning the exportation of the produce and merchandize of the United States, or any right they may have to make such regulations.
ART. VIII. In future and forever after the expiration of the twelve years, the ships of France shall be treated upon the footing of the most favored nations in the ports above mentioned.

Convention

ART. IX. The particular convention signed this day by the respective

prov the piadiynmgefnotr ministers, having for its object to provide for the payment of debts due

of debts to citi. to the citizens of the United States by the French Republic, prior to

zens of U. S.to the 30th of September, 1800, ( 8th Vendemiaire, an. 9, ) is approved,
be ratified when and to have its execution in the same manner as if it had been inserted this is.
in this present treaty ; and it shall be ratified in the same form and in the

same time, so that the one shall not be ratified distinct from the other.

Another convention to be ratified at the same time.

Another particular convention signed at the same date as the present treaty relative to a definitive rule between the contracting parties is in the like manner approved , and will be ratified in the same form, and in

the same time, and jointly.

In what time
the ratifications must be exchanged.

ART. X. The present treaty shall be ratified in good and due form , and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months after the date of the signature by the ministers plenipotentiary, or sooner, if possible.

IN FAITH WHEREOF, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed these articles in the French and English languages ; declaring nevertheless that the present treaty was originally agreed to in the French language ; and have thereunto affixed their seals.

TREATY WITH FRANCE. 1803.

205

ART. VII. Comme il est réciproquement avantageux au commerce de la France et des Etats-Unis, d'encourager la communication des deux peuples, pour un tems limité, dans les contreés dont il est fait
cession, par le présent traité, jusqu'à ce que des arrangemens généraux relatifs au commerce des deux nations, puissent être convenus, il a été arrêté entre les parties contractantes, que les navires Francais, venant directement de France ou d'aucune de ses colonies, uniquement chargés des produits des manufactures de la France et de ses dites colonies, et les navires Espagnols venant directement des ports d'Espagne, ou de ceux de ses colonies, uniquement chargés des produits des manufactures de l'Espagne et de ses dites colonies, seront admis, pendant l'espace de douze années, dans le port de la Nouvelle Orléans, et dans tous les autres ports légalement ouverts en quelque lieu que ce soit des territoires cédés ; ainsi et de la manière que les navires des Etats-Unis venant de France et d'Espagne, ou d'aucune de leurs colonies, sans être sujets à d'autres ou plus grand droits sur les marchandises, ou d'autres ou plus grands droits de tonnage, que ceux qui sont payés par les citoyens des Etats-Unis. Pendant l'espace de tems ci-dessus mentionné, aucune nation n'aura droit aux mêmes privilèges dans les ports du territoire cédé.
Les douze années commenceront trois mois après l'echange des ratifications, s'il a lieu en France, ou trois mois après qu'il aura été notifié à Paris au gouvernement Français, s'il a lieu dans les Etats-Unis.
Il est bien entendu que le but du présent article est de favoriser les manufactures, le commerce à frêt et la navigation de France et de l'Espagne, en ce qui regarde les importations qui seront faites par les Français et par les Espagnols dans les dits ports des Etats-Unis , sans
qu'il soit rien innové aux réglemens concernant l'exportation des produits et marchandises des Etats-Unis, et aux droits qu'il ont de faire les dits réglemens.

ART. VIII. A l'avenir et pour toujours après l'expiration des douze années sus dites les navires Français seront traité sur le pied de la nation la plus favorisée, dans les ports ci-dessus mentionnés.
ART. IX. La Convention particulierè signée aujourd'hui par les Ministres respectifs ayant pour objet de pourvoir au payement des créances dues aux citoyens des Etats-Unis par la République Francaise antérieurement au 8 Vendemiaire, an. 9 (30 Septembre, 1800,) est approuvée pour avoir son exécution de la même maniere que si elle était inserée au présent traité et elle sera ratifieé en la même forme et en même tems en sorte que l'une ne puisse l'être sans l'autre.
Un autre acte particulier signé à la même date que le présent traité relatif à un réglement définitif entre les puissances contractantes est pareillement approuvé et sera ratifié en la même forme en même tems et conjointement.
ART. X. Le présent traité sera ratifié en bonne et due forme, et les ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace de six mois après la date de ' a signature de Plénipotentiaires, ou plutôt, s'il est possible.
En foi dequoi, les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci-dessus tant en langue Française qu'en langue Anglaise , déclarant néanmoins que le présent traité a été originairement rédigé et arrêté en langue Française et ils y ont opposé leur sceau . S

206

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

Done at Paris, the tenth day of Floreal, in the eleventh year of the French Republic, and the 30th of April, 1803 .

(Signed)

ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON, JAMES MONROE, F. BARBÉ MARBOIS ,

(L. s. ) (L. S.) (L. 8. )

CONVENTION

Between the United States of America and the French Republic.

April 30, 1803. THE President of the United States of America and the First Consul of the French Republic, in the name of the French people, in consequence of the treaty of cession of Louisiana, which has been signed this day, wishing to regulate definitively every thing which has relation to the said cession, have authorized to this effect the plenipotentiaries, that is to say : the President of the United States has, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said States, nominated for their plenipotentiaries, Robert R. Livingston, minister plenipotentiary of the United States, and James Monroe, minister plenipotentiary and envoy extraordinary of the said United States, near the government of the French Republic ; and the First Consul of the French Republic , in the name of the French people, has named as plenipotentiary of the said Republic , the citizen Francis Barbé Marbois ; who, in virtue of their full powers, which have been exchanged this day, have agreed to the following articles :

U. S. engage t0o00pafrya6nc0s,0t0o0, France, & c.

ART. I. The government of the United States engages to pay to the French government, in the manner specified in the following article, the sum of sixty millions of francs , independent of the sum which shall be fixed by another convention for the payment of the debts due by France to citizens of the United States.

A stockto be

ART. II. For the payment of the sum of sixty millions of francs,

created equal to the 60,000,000

mentioned in the preceding article, the United

States shall create a

offrancs, & c. stock of eleven millions two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, bearing

an interest of six per cent. per annum , payable half yearly in London,

Amsterdam or Paris, amounting by the half year, to three hundred and

thirty-seven thousand five hundred dollars, according to the proportions which shall be determined by the French government to be paid at

either place the principal of the said stock to be reimbursed at the Treasury of the United States, in annual payments of not less than

When the first payment shall be made.

three millions of dollars each ; of which the first payment shall commence fifteen years after the date of the exchange of ratifications : this stock shall be transferred to the government of France, or to such person or persons as shall be authorized to receive it, in three months

at most after the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, and after Louisiana shall be taken possession of in the name of the government of the United States.

French govern- It is further agreed , that if the French government should be desirous ment selling of disposing ofthe said stock to receive the capital in Europe, at shorter stock in Europe, terms, that its measures for that purpose shall be taken so as to favor,

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE .. 1803.

207

Fait à Paris le dixième jour de floréal de l'an onze de la République Française et le trente Avril mil huit cent trois.

ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON. JAMES MONROE. BARBÉ-MARBOIS.

(L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S.)

CONVENTION
Entre les Etats- Unis d'Amérique, et la République
Français.
LE PRÉSIDENT des Etat-Unis d'Amérique, et le PREMIER CONSUL de la République Française, au nom du peuple Français , par suite du traité de cession de la Louisiane, qui a été signé aujourd'hui, et voulant régler définitivement tout ce qui est relatif à cette affaire, ont autorisé, à cet effect, des Plénipotentiaires , Savoir :
Le President des Etats-Unis, par et avec l'avis et le consentiment du Sénat des dits Etats, a nommé pour leurs Plénipotentiaires Robert R. Livingston, Ministre Plénipotentiaire des Etats-Unis, et James Monroe Ministre Plénipotentiaire et Envoyé extraordinaire des Etats-Unis auprès du gouvernement de la République Française, et Le Premier Consul de la République Française, au nom du peuple Français, a nommé pour Plénipotentiaire de la dite République, le citoyen François Barbé Marbois ; Ministre du trésor public ; lesquels en vertu de leurs pleins pouvours, dont l'échange a ete fait aujourd'hui sont convenus des articles suivans :
ART. I. Le gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'engage à payer au gouvernement Français, de la maniere qui sera spécifié en l'article suivant la somme de soixante millions de francs, indépendemment de ce qui sera fixé par une autre convention, pour le paiement des sommes dues par la France à des citoyens des Etats-Unis.
ART. II. Le paiement des soixante millions de francs mentionnés au précédent article, sera effectué par les Etats-Unis, au moyen de la création d'un fonds de onze millions deux cent cinquante mille piatres, portant un intérêt de six pour cent, par an payable tous les six mois à Londres, Amsterdam ou Paris , à raison de trois cent trente sept mille cinq cents piastres pour six mois, dans les trois places ci dessus dites, suivant la proportion qui sera déterminée par le gouvernement Français. Le principal du dit fonds sera remboursé par le trésor des EtatsUnis, par des paiemens annuels , qui ne pourront être d'une somme moindre que trois millions de piastres par année et dont le premier commencera quinze ans après la date de l'échange des ratifications. Ce
fonds sera transféré au gouvernement de France, ou à telle personne, ou tel nombre de personnes qu'il chargera de le recevoir, dans les trois mois au plus tard après l'échange des ratifications de ce traité et après la prise de possession de la Louisiane, au nom du gouvernement des Etats-Unis.
Il est en outre convenu que si le gouvernement Français était dans l'intention de disposer du dit fonds, et d'en toucher le capital en Europe, à des époques rapprochées, les opérations qui auront lieu seront con-

208

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

tboesdtotietrumpsonfotrhe in the greatest degree possible, the credit of the United States, and to

U. S.

raise to the highest price the said stock.

Value ofthe dollar of U. S. referred to, fixed .

ART. III. It is agreed that the dollar of the United States, specified 3333
in the present convention, shall be fixed at five francs 13030 or five
livres, eight sous tournois.

When convention must be -atified and exchanged.

The present convention shall be ratified in good and due form, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the space of six months to date from this day, or sooner if possible.

IN FAITH OF WHICH, The respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the French and English languages, declaring, nevertheless, that the present treaty has been originally
agreed on and written in the French language ; to which they have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris, the tenth of Floreal, eleventh year of the French Republic, (30th April, 1803. )

ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON, JAMES MONROE , BARBÉ MARBOIS.

(L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S.)

CONVENTION

Between the United States of America and the French Republic.

Apr 30, 1803. THE President of the United States of America and the First Consul of the French Republic, in the name of the French people, having by a treaty of this date terminated all difficulties relative to Louisiana, and established on a solid foundation the friendship which unites the two nations, and being desirous, in compliance with the second and fifth articles of the convention of the eighth Vendemiaire, ninth year of the French Republic (30th September, 1800, ) to secure the payment of the sums due by France to the citizens of the United States, have respectively nominated as plenipotentiaries, that is to say : the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, Robert R. Livingston, minister plenipotentiary, and James Monroe, minister plenipotentiary and envoy extraordinary of the said states, near the government of the French Republic ; and the First Consul, in the name of the French people, the citizen Francis Barbé Marbois, minister of the public treasury: who after having exchanged their full powers, have agreed to the following articles :

Deb's due from France to
tciotbizeenpsaiodf Uac.-S. cording to fixed regulations.

ART. I. The debts due by France to citizens of the United States, contracted before the 8th of Vendemiaire, ninth year of the French Republic (30th September, 1800) shall be paid according to the following
regulations, with interest at six per cent. to commence from the periods when the accounts and vouchers were presented to the French government.

ART. II. The debts provided for by the preceding article are those

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

209

duites de la manière la plus favorable au crédit des Etats-Unis et la plus propre à maintenir le prise avantageux du fonds qui doit être créé.
ART. III. La piastre ayant cours de monnaie dans les Etats-Unis , il est convenu que dans les comptes auxquels la présente convention donnera lieu, le rapport de la dite monnaie avec la franc, sera invariablement fixé à cinq francs 130303030 ou cinq livres huit sols Tournois.
La présente convention sera ratifieé en bonne et due forme, et le ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace de six mois, à dater de ce jour, ou plutôt si'l est possible.
En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci-dessus, tant en langue Française qu'en langue Anglaise , déclarant néanmoins que le présent traité a été originairement rédigé et arrêté en langue Française, et ils y ont apposé leur sceau.

Fait à Paris, le dixième jour de Floréal de l'an Onze de la Répub lique Française et 30 Avril, 1803.
BARBÉ-MARBOIS , ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON, JAMES MONROE.

CONVENTION

Entre la République Française et les Etats- Unis
d'Amérique.
LE PREMIER CONSUL de la République Francaise, au nom du peuple Francais, et le PRESIDENT des Etats-Unis de l'Amérique, ayant par une traité en date de ce jour, fait cesser toutes les difficultés relatives à la Louisiane, et affermi sur des fondemens solides l'amitié qui unit les deux nations, et voulant en exécution des articles 2 et 5 de la convention du 8 Vendemiaire, an. 9, (30 Septembre, 1800, ) assurer le payement des sommes dues par la France aux citoyens des Etats-Unis, ons respectivement nommé pour plénipotentiaires ; Savoir : LE PREMIER CONSUL, au nom du peuple Francais, le citoyen francois Barbé Marbois, ministre du Trésor public , et LE PRESIDENT des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat des dits Etats, Robert R. Livingston , ministre plénipotentiaire des Etats-Unis, et James Monroe, ministre plénipotentiaire et envoyé extraordinaire des dits Etats, auprès du gouvernement de la république Francaise : lesquels après avoir fait l'échange de leurs pleinspouvoirs, sont convenus des articles suivans :
ARTICLE I. Les dettes dues par la France aux citoyens des EtatsUnis, contractées avant le 8 Vendémiare , an. 9. (30 Septembre, 1800, ) seront payées conformément aux dispositions suivantes, avec les intérêsts à six pour cent, à compter de l'époque où la réclamation et les pieces à l'appui ont été remises au gouvernment Francais.

ART. II. Les dettes qui sont l'objet du présent article sont celles dont

VOL. VIII. 27

82

210

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

Debts provided for by the pre-
ceding article.

whose result is comprised in the conjectural note ( a) annexed to the present convention , and which, with the interest , cannot exceed the sum of twenty millions of francs. The claims comprised in the said note which fall within the exceptions of the following articles, shall not be admitted to the benefit of this provision.

How the said
debts are to be paid.

ART. III. The principal and interests of the said debts shall be discharged by the United States, by orders drawn by their minister plenipotentiary on their treasury ; these orders shall be payable sixty days after the exchange of ratifications of the treaty and the conventions signed this day, and after possession shall be given of Louisiana by the commissaries of France to those of the United States.

What debts
are comprehended by the
preceding articles.

ART. IV. It is expressly agreed, that the preceding articles shall com-
prehend no debts but such as are due to citizens of the United States, who have been and are yet creditors of France, for supplies, for em-
bargoes, and prizes made at sea , in which the appeal has been properly lodged within the time mentioned in the said convention , 8th Vendemiaire, ninth year, (30th September, 1800. )

To what cases they are par-
ticularly to apply.

ART. V. The preceding articles shall apply only, 1st, to captures of which the council of prizes shall have ordered restitution, it being well understood that the claimant cannot have recourse to the United States, otherwise than he might have had to the government of the French

Republic, and only in case of insufficiency of the captors ; 2d, the debts mentioned in the said fifth article of the convention contracted before

the 8th Vendemiaire, an. 9 (30th September, 1800, ) the payment of which has been heretofore claimed of the actual government of France,

and for which the creditors have a right to the protection of the United

States ; the said fifth article does not comprehend prizes whose condemnation has been or shall be confirmed : it is the express intention

of the contracting parties not to extend the benefit of the present convention to reclamations of American citizens, who shall have established

houses of commerce in France, England , or other countries than the

United States, in partnership with foreigners, and who by that reason and the nature of their commerce, ought to be regarded as domiciliated in the places where such houses exist. All agrements and bargains

concerning merchandize, which shall not be the property of American

citizens, are equally excepted from the benefit of the said convention,

saving, however, to such persons their claims in like manner as if this treaty had not been made.

Ministers ple- ART. VI. And that the different questions which may arise under the

nipotentiary of preceding article may be fairly investigated, the ministers plenipotentiary cUo.mSm.istsoiaopnpeorisnt of the United States shall name three persons, who shall act from the

to act provisionally.

present and provisionally, and who shall have full power to examine, without removing the documents , all the accounts of the different claims

already liquidated by the bureaus established for this purpose by the

French Republic , and to ascertain whether they belong to the classes designated by the present convention and the principles established in

it ; or if they are not in one of its exceptions and on their certificate,

declaring that the debt is due to an American citizen or his representative, and that it existed before the 8th Vendemiaire, 9th year (30th

September, 1800 ) the debtor shall be entitled to an order on the Trea-

sury of the United States, in the manner prescribed by the third article.

ART. VII. The same agents shall likewise have power, without re-

(a) This " conjectural note" was not deposited in the Department of State until May 17 , 1832, and is therefore omitted here.

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

211

le résultat par appercu est compris dans la note annexée à la présente convention, et qui ne pourront, y compris les interéts, excéder la somme de vingt-millions.
Les réclamations comprises dans la dite note ne pourront néanmoins être admises qu'autant qu'elles ne seront pas frappées des exceptions mentionnées aux articles suivans.

ART. III. Le principal et les intérêts seront acquittés par les EtatsUnis d'Amerique sur des mandats tirés par le ministre plénipotentiaire des dits Etats-Unis sur leur trésor. Ces mandats seront payables soixante jours après l'échange des ratifications du traité et des conventions
signées ce jour, et après la remise qui doit étre faite de la Louisiane par le commissaire Francais aux commissaires des Etats-Unis.

ART. IV. Il est expressément convenu que les articles précédens ne comprennent que les créances des citoyens de Etats-Unis, ou de leurs
représentans, qui ont été et sont encore créanciers de la France pour fournitures, embargos et prizes faites à la mer, et réclamées dans le temps necessaire, et suivant les formes prescites par la convention du 8 Vendémiaire, an. 9, (30 Septembre, 1800. )
ART. V. Les articles précédens ne seront appliqués, 1 °. qu'aux captures dont le conseil des prises aurait or donné la restitution ou main levée, bien entendu que le réclamant ne pourra avoir recours sur les Etats-Unis pour son payement que de la même maniére qu'il l'aurait eu envers le gouvernement Francais et seulement en cas d'insuffisance de la part des capteurs ; 2°. Qu'aux dettes mentionnées dans ce même article 5 de la convention, contractées avant le 8 Vendémiaire, an. 9 (30 Septembre, 1800,) dont le payement a été ci-devant réclamé auprès du gouvernement actuel de France, et pour lesquelles le créancier a droit à la protection des Etats-Unis. Le dit article 5 ne comprend point les prises dont la condamnation a été ou viendrait à être confirmée ; l'intention expresse des parties contractantes est pareillement de ne point étendre le bénéfice de la présente convention aux réclamations des citoyens Americans, qui auraient établi des maisons de commerce en France, en Angleterre ou dans des pays autres que les EtatsUnis, en société avec des étrangers, et qui, par cette raison et la nature de leur commerce, doivent être regardés comme domiciliés dans les lieux où existent les dites maisons. Sont pareillement exceptés tous accords et pactes concernant des merchandises qui ne seraient pas la propriété des citoyens Américains.
Il n'est d'ailleurs rien préjugé sur le fond des reclamations ainsi exceptées.
ART. VI. Afin que lés différentes questions aux quelles l'article précédent pourra donner lieu, puissent être convenablement examinees, les ministres plénipotentiaires des Etats-Unis nommeront trois personnes qui dès à présent et provisoirement, auront tout pouvoir d'examiner, sans déplacement de pièces tous les comptes des différentes créances déjà liquideés par les bureaux établis à cet effet par la République Francaise, et de reconnaître si elles appartiennent aux classes désignées dans la présente convention, et aux principes qui y sont établis, ou si elles ne sont pas dans l'une des exceptions, et sur leur certificat portant que la créance est due à un citoyen Americain, ou à son représentant, et qu'elle existait avant le 8 Vendémiaire, an. 9 ( 30 Septembre, 1800, ) le créancier aura droit à un mandat sur le trésor des Etats-Unis, expédié conformément à l'article 3.

ART. VII. Les mêmes agens pourront également, et dès à présent,

212

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803.

To examine
the claims, & c. and to certify those which
ought to be admitted.

moving the documents, to examine the claims which are prepared for verification , and to certify those which ought to be admitted by uniting the necessary qualifications, and not being comprised in the exceptions contained in the present convention.

To examine those not pre-
pared for liquidation, & c.

ART. VIII . The same agents shall likewise examine the claims which are not prepared for liquidation , and certify in writing those which in their judgment ought to be admitted to liquidation.

Debts dis-

ART. IX. In proportion as the debts mentioned in these articles shall

charged at the be admitted, they shall be discharged with interest, at six per cent. by treasury of U.S. with interest. the Treasury of the United States.

Commercial agent of U. S. at Paris to assist in the examination of claims, & c.

ART. X. And that no debt which shall not have the qualifications above mentioned , and that no unjust or exorbitant demand may be admitted, the commercial agent of the United States at Paris, or such other agent as the minister plenipotentiary of the United States shall think proper to nominate, shall assist at the operations of the bureaus,

and co-operate in the examination of the claims ; and if this agent shall

be of opinion that any debt is not completely proved, or if he shall

judge that it is not comprised in the principles of the fifth article above mentioned, and if notwithstanding his opinion , the bureaus established

by the French government should think that it ought to be liquidated, he shall transmit his observations to the board established by the United

States, who, without removing documents, shall make a complete examination of the debt and vouchers which support it, and report the result to the minister of the United States. The minister of the United

States shall transmit his observations, in all such cases, to the minister

of the treasury of the French Republic , on whose report the French

government shall decide definitively in every case.
Rejection of a The rejection of any claim shall have no other effect than to exempt claim to exempt the United States from the payment of it, the French government re-
iUn.gSi.t.from pay serving to itself the right to decide definitively on such claim so far as it concerns itself.

Decisions to be ART. XI. Every necessary decision shall be made in the course of a made, & c.
year, to commence from the exchange of ratifications, and no reclama-
tion shall be admitted afterwards.

Claims since
30th Sep. 1800, may be pursued, and payment demanded.

ART. XII. In case of claims for debts contracted by the government of France with citizens ofthe United States since the 8th Vendemiaire,
ninth year, (30th September, 1800 ) not being comprised in this convention, may be pursued , and the payment demanded in the same manner as if it had not been made.

When this convention must be ratified, & c.

ART. XIII . The present convention shall be ratified in good and due form, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in six months from the date of the signature of the ministers plenipotentiary, or sooner, if possible.

IN FAITH OF WHICH , the respective Ministers plenipotentiary have signed the above articles both in the French and English languages,
declaring, nevertheless, that the present treaty has been originally agreed on and written in the French language ; to which they have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris, the tenth of Floreal , eleventh year of the French Re public, 30th April , 1803.

(Signed)

ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON, JAMES MONROE , BARBÉ MARBOIS.

(L. s. ) (L. S.) (L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1803 .

213

prendre connaissance, sans déplacer, des pieces relatives aux réclama tions dont le travail et la vérification sont préparés, et délivrer leurs certificats sur celles qui réuniront les caractères necéssaires pour l'admission, et qui ne seront pas comprises dans les exceptions exprimées par la présente convention.
ART. VIII. A l'égard des autres réclamations dont les travaux n'ont pas encore été préparés, les mêmes agens en prendront aussi successivement connaissance, et déclareront par écrit celles qui leur paraîtront susceptibles d'être admises en liquidation.
ART. IX. A mesure que les créances mentionnées dans les dits articles auront été admises, elles seront acquittées avec les intérêts à six pour cent, par le trésor des Etats-Unis.
ART. X. Et afin qu'aucune dette qui n'aura pas les caractères cidessus mentionnés, et qu'aucunes demandes injustes ou exorbitantes ne puissent etre admises, l'agent commercial des Etats Unis à Paris, ou tel autre agent que le ministre plenipotentiare des Etats Unis jugera à propos de nommer, pourra assister aux opérations des dits Bureaux, et concourir à l'examen de ces Créances, et si cet agent n'est pas d'avis que la dette est completement provée , ou s'il juge qu'elle n'est pas comprise dans les dispositions du 5me article ci-dessus mentionné, et que non obstant son avis les Bureaux établis par le gouvernement Français estiment que la liquidation doit avoir lieu , il transmettra les observations au Bureau établi de la part des Etats Unis, qui fera, sans déplacer, l'examen complet de la Créance et des piéces au soutién , et fera son rapport au ministre des Etats Unis.
Le ministre transmettra ses observations à celui du Tresor de la Ré-
publique Française, et sur son rapport le gouvernement Français prononcera définitivement.
Le rejet qui pourra avoir lieu n'ayant d'autre effet que de constater que le paiement demandé ne doit pas etre fait par les Etats Unis, le gouvernement Français se réserve de statuer définitivement sur la réclamation, en ce qui pourra le concerner.

ART. XI. Toutes les décisions nécessaires seront rendues dans le cours d'une année, à dater de l'echange des ratifications, et aucune réclamation ne sera admise ultérieurement.
ART. XII. Dans le cas où il y aurait des réclamations des citoyens des Etats Unis à la charge du gouvernement Français, pour des dettes contractées après le 8 Vendemaire, an. 9 (30 Septembre, 1800) elles pourront etre suivies, et le paiement pourra être demandé, comme n'etant point comprises en cette convention.
ART. XIII. La présente convention sera ratifiée en bonne et due forme, et les ratifications seront échangées dans l'espace de six mois, aprés la date de la signature des ministres plenipotentiaires, ou plutôt, s'il est possible.
En foi de quoi les plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci-dessus, tant en langue Française qu'en langue Anglaise, déclarant néanmoins que le présent traité a été originairement rédigé et arrêté en langue Française, etils y ont apposé leurs sceau.

Fait à Paris, le dixieme jour de Floreal, de l'an onze de la République Française, et le 30 Avril 1803.

BARBE-MARBOIS , ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON , JAMES MONROE ,

(L. 8. ) (L. S. ) (L. S.)

TREATY OF PEACE AND AMITY,

Between the United States of America, and the Bashaw, Bey, and subjects of Tripoli, in Barbary. (a)

June 4, 1805. Peace and friendship reestablished .
Privileges in c&ocm.merce , & c.

ARTICLE I. There shall be, from the conclusion of this treaty, a firm ,
inviolable, and universal peace, and a sincere friendship between the President and citizens of the United States of America, on the one part, and the bashaw, bey, and subjects of the regency of Tripoli in Barbary, on the other, made by the free consent of both parties, and on the terms of the most favored nation . And if either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation , any particular favor or privilege in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become common to the other party, freely where it is freely granted to such other nation ; but where the grant is conditional, it shall be at the option of the contracting parties, to accept, alter, or reject such conditions, in such manner as shall be most conducive to their respective interests.

Prisoners to be ART. II. The bashaw of Tripoli shall deliver up to the American

mutually given squadron , now off Tripoli, all the Americans in his possession ; and all

up.

the subjects of the bashaw of Tripoli, now in the power of the United

States of America, shall be delivered up to him ; and as the number of

Americans in possession of the bashaw of Tripoli, amounts to three

hundred persons , more or less, and the number of Tripoline subjects in

the power of the Americans, is about one hundred, more or less, the

bashaw of Tripoli shall receive from the United States of America , the

sum of sixty thousand dollars, as a payment for the difference between

the prisoners herein mentioned.

American forces inthe
province of Derne to be
withdrawn.

ART. III. All the forces of the United States, which have been, or may be in hostility against the Bashaw of Tripoli, in the province of Derne, or elsewhere within the dominions of the said Bashaw, shall be withdrawn therefrom, and no supplies shall be withdrawn therefrom , and no supplies shall be given by or in behalf of the said United States, during the continuance of this peace, to any of the subjects of the said Bashaw, who may be in hostility against him, in any part of his dominions ; and the Americans will use all means in their power to persuade the brother of the said Bashaw, who has co-operated with them at Derne, & c., to withdraw from the territory of the said Bashaw of Tripoli ; but will not use any force or improper means to effect that object, and in case he should withdraw himself as aforesaid, the Bashaw engages to deliver up to him his wife and children now in his power.

Free ships to make free
goods .

ART. 4th. If any goods belonging to any nation, with which either of the parties are at war, should be loaded on board vessels belonging to the other party, they shall pass free and unmolested, and no attempts shall be made to take or detain them.

Citizens , & c. to be given up if taken in prize vessels .

ART. 5th. If any citizens or subjects with their effects, belonging to either party, shall be found on board a prize vessel, taken from an enemy by the other party, such citizens or subjects shall be liberated

(a) Treaty of peace and friendship between the United States and the Bey and Subjects of Tripoli, November 4, 1796 , ante, page 154 .
(214)

TREATY WITH TRIPOLI. 1805.

215

immediately, and their effects, so captured, shall be restored to their lawful owners, or their agents.

ART. 6th. Proper passports shall immediately be given to the vessels of both the contracting parties, on condition , that the vessels of war
belonging to the Regency of Tripoli , on meeting with merchant vessels belonging to citizens of the United States of America, shall not be permitted to visit them with more than two persons besides the rowers ;

Passports tobe gseilvsenoftobovtehs contracting parties.

these two only shall be permitted to go on board, without first obtaining leave from the commander of said vessel, who shall compare the pass-

port, and immediately permit said vessel to proceed on her voyage ; and should any of the said subjects of Tripoli insult or molest the com-

mander, or any other person on board a vessel so visited, or plunder any of the property contained in her, on complaint being made by the consul of the United States of America resident at Tripoli , and on his producing sufficient proof to substantiate the fact, the commander or rais of said Tripoline ship or vessel of war, as well as the offenders, shall be punished in the most exemplary manner. All vessels of war

belonging to the United States of America, on meeting with a cruizer belonging to the Regency of Tripoli, on having seen her passport and certificate from the consul of the United States of America residing in the Regency, shall permit her to proceed on her cruize unmolested, and without detention. No passport shall be granted by either party to any vessels, but such as are absolutely the property of citizens or subjects of said contracting parties, on any pretence whatever.

ART. 7th. A citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties,
having bought a prize vessel, condemned by the other party, or by any other nation, the certificate of condemnation and bill of sale, shall be a sufficient passport for such vessel for two years, which, considering the distance between the two countries, is no more than a reasonable time for her to procure proper passports.

What shall be
sufficient passport.

ART. 8th. Vessels of either party, putting into the ports ofthe other, and having need of provisions or other supplies, they shall be furnished
at the market price, and if any such vessel should so put in , from a disaster at sea, and have occasion to repair, she shall be at liberty to land and reimbark her cargo, without paying any duties ; but in no case shall she be compelled to land her cargo.

Vessels of
both nations permitted to touch at the
ports of each, for provisions, & c.

ART. 9th. Should a vessel of either party be cast on the shore of the other, all proper assistance shall be given to her and her crew. No
pillage shall be allowed , the property shall remain at the disposition of the owners, and the crew protected and succoured , till they can be sent to their country.

Proper assistance to be given to the vessels
of both nations , &c.

ART. 10th. If a vessel of either party shall be attacked by an enemy within gun-shot of the forts of the other , she shall be defended as much as possible. If she be in port, she shall not be seized or attacked when
it is in the power of the other party to protect her ; and when she proceeds to sea, no enemy shall be allowed to pursue her from the same port, within twenty-four hours after her departure.

Rules as to
the time when, and the distance which, an enemy's vessel
may be attacked.

ART. 11th. The commerce between the United States of America, Commerce,

and the Regency of Tripoli ; the protections to be given to merchants, & c. to be onthe footing of that
masters of vessels and seamen ; the reciprocal right of establishing con- of the most fa-

suis in each country, and the privileges, immunities and jurisdictions, voured nations.

to be enjoyed by such consuls , are declared to be on the same footing, Consul of U.S

with those of the most favored nations, respectively.

not to be an-

ART. 12th. The consul of the United States of America shall not be swerable for answerable for debts contracted by citizens of his own nation, unless debts of citizens
of his own

he previously gives a written obligation so to do.

country.

216

TREATY WITH TRIPOLI. 1805.

Vessels ofthe U. S. to be saluted by the government of that regency.

ART. 13th. On a vessel of war, belonging to the United States of America, anchoring before the city of Tripoli, the consul is to inform the Bashaw of her arrival, and she shall be saluted with twenty-one guns, which she is to return in the same quantity or number.

Entire freedom to be allowed in religious inatters.

ART. 14th. As the government of the United States of America has, in itself, no character of enmity against the laws, religion , or tranquility of Musselmen, and as the said states never have entered into any voluntary war or act of hostility against any Mahometan nation,

except in the defence of their just rights to freely navigate the high seas, it is declared by the contracting parties, that no pretext arising

from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony existing between the two nations. And the consuls and agents of both nations respectively, shall have liberty to exercise his religion in his own house. All slaves of the same religion shall not be impeded in going to said consul's house at hours of prayer. The consuls shall

have liberty and personal security given them , to travel within the territories of each other both by land and sea, and shall not be prevented

from going on board any vessel that they may think proper to visit. They shall have likewise the liberty to appoint their own drogerman and brokers.

Time allowed before an ap-
peal to arms.

ART. 15th. In case of any dispute arising, from the violation of any of the articles of this treaty, no appeal shall be made to arms ; nor shall war be declared on any pretext whatever ; but if the consul residing at the place where the dispute shall happen , shall not be able to settle the same, the government of that country shall state their grievances in writing, and transmit it to the government of the other ; and the period of twelve calender months shall be allowed for answers to be returned ;
during which time no act of hostility shall be permitted by either party ; and in case the grievances are not redressed, and a war should be the event, the consuls and citizens or subjects of both parties reciprocally, shall be permitted to embark with their effects unmolested, on board of what vessel or vessels they shall think proper.

Mutual ex-
change of pri. soners in the event of a war.

ART. 16th. If in the fluctuation of human events, a war should break out between the two nations, the prisoners captured by either party shall not be made slaves, but shall be exchanged rank for rank. And if there should be a deficiency on either side, it shall be made up by the payment of five hundred Spanish dollars for each captain, three hundred dollars for each mate and supercargo, and one hundred Spanish dollars for each seaman so wanting. And it is agreed that prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months from the time of their capture ; and that the exchange may be effected by any private individual legally authorized by either of the parties.

Vessels of U.S.
captured by one of the Barbary states, not to be sold, but to be sent away.

ART. 17th. If any of the Barbary states, or other powers, at war with the United States of America, shall capture any American vessel , and send her into any ofthe ports of the Regency of Tripoli , they shall not be permitted to sell her, but shall be obliged to depart the port, on procuring the requisite supplies of provisions ; and no duties shall be exacted on the sale of prizes , captured by the vessels sailing under the flag of the United States of America, when brought into any port in the regency of Tripoli.

Disputes to be settled by the consul of U.S.

ART. 18th. If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their protection , shall have any disputes with each other, the consul shall decide between the parties, and whenever the consul shall require any aid or assistance from the government of Tripoli to enforce his decisions, it shall immediately be granted to him , and if any disputes shall arise between any citizen of the United States, and the

TREATY WITH TRIPOLI. 1805.

217

citizens or subjects of any other nation having a consul or agent in
Tripoli ; such disputes shall be settled by the consuls or agents of the respective nations.

ART. 19th. If a citizen of the United States should kill or wound a The lex loci to

Tripoline, or, on the contrary, if a Tripoline shall kill or wound a citi- prevail with re-

zen of the United States, the law of the

country shall

take

place, and

gard to homicides commit-

equal justice shall be rendered , the consul assisting at the trial ; and if ted by a citizen
any delinquent shall make his escape, the consul shall not be answerable of U.S. or a Tripoline.
for him in any manner whatever.

ART. 20th. Should any of the citizens of the United States of Ame- Citizens of
rica die within the limits of the Regency of Tripoli, the Bashaw and U.S. dying in the Regency of
his subjects shall not interfere with the property of the deceased , but it Tripoli, their shall be under the immediate direction of the consul, unless otherwise property to be
disposed of by will. Should there be no consul, the effects shall be saved for their deposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party representatives shall appear who has a right to demand them, when they shall render an
account of the property. Neither shall the Bashaw or his subjects give hindrance in the execution of any will that may appear.

WHEREAS the undersigned, Tobias Lear, Consul-General of the United States of America, for the Regency of Algiers, being duly ap-
pointed Commissioner, by letters patent under the signature of the President, and seal of the United States of America, bearing date at the City of Washington, the 18th day of November, one thousand eight hundred and three, for negociating and concluding a treaty of peace, between the United States of America, and the Bashaw, Bey, and subjects of the Regency of Tripoli, in Barbary.
Now KNOW YE, That I, Tobias Lear, Commissioner as aforesaid, do conclude the foregoing treaty, and every article and clause therein contained, reserving the same, nevertheless, for the final ratification of the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States.

Done at Tripoli, in Barbary, the fourth day of June, in the year one thousand eight hundred and five ; corresponding with the sixth day of the first month of Rabbia, 1220.

TOBIAS LEAR.

Having appeared in our presence, Colonel Tobias Lear, Consul-General of the United States of America, in the Regency of Algiers, and Commissioner for negociating and concluding a treaty of peace and friendship, between us and the United States of America, bringing with him the present treaty of peace, with the within articles, they were by us minutely examined, and we do hereby accept, confirm and ratify them, ordering all our subjects to fulfil entirely their contents without any violation, and under no pretext.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, We , with the heads of our Regency, subscribe it.
Given at Tripoli, in Barbary, the sixth day of the first month of Rabbia, 1220, corresponding with the fourth day of June, 1805 .

VOL. VIII.

JUSUF CARAMANLY , Bashaw. MAHAMET CARAMANLY, Bey.

MOHAMET , Kahia.

28

T

( L. S.) (L. S.) (L. S. )

218

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1814.

HAMET , Rais de Marine. MAHAMET DEGHEIS , First minister. SALAH, Aga of Divan. SELIM, Hamadar. MURAT, Dulartile. MURAT RAIS, Admiral. SOLIMAN, Kehia. ABDALLA, Basa Aga. MAHAMET, Scheig al Belad. ALLI BEN DIALE, First Secretary.

(L. s.) L. S. L. S. L. S. L. S. L. S.
(L. S. L. S. L. S. (L. S.)

TREATY OF PEACE AND AMITY ,

Between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America. (a)

Dec. 24, 1814. His Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, desirous

Ratified and
confirmed, by
and with the advice and conBent of the
Senate, Feb. 17, 1815.

of terminating the war which has unhappily subsisted between the two countries, and of restoring, upon principles of perfect reciprocity, peace, friendship, and good understanding between them, have, for that purpose, appointed their respective plenipotentiaries, that is to say : His Britannic Majesty, on his part, has appointed the right honorable James Lord Gambier, late admiral of the white, now admiral of the red squadron

1821 , ch . 40. 1827, ch. 36. 1828, ch. 52.

of His Majesty's fleet , Henry Goulburn Esquire, a member of the Imperial Parliament, and under Secretary of State, and William Adams, Esquire, Doctor of Civil Laws : -And the President of the United

States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, has

appointed John Quincy Adams, James A. Bayard, Henry Clay, Jonathan Russell and Albert Gallatin, citizens of the United States, who, after a

reciprocal communication of their respective full powers, have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE THE FIRST.

Firm and inviolable peace.

There shall be a firm and universal peace between His Britannic Majesty and the United States, and between their respective countries, territories, cities, towns, and people, of every degree, without exception of places or persons. All hostilities, both by sea and land, shall cease

as soon as this treaty shall have been ratified by both parties, as hereinTerritory, & c. after mentioned. All territory, places, and possessions whatsoever, to be restored, taken by either party from the other, during the war, or which may be with exceptions. taken after the signing of this treaty, excepting only the islands herein-
after mentioned, shall be restored without delay, and without causing

Archives and records to be
restored.

any destruction, or carrying away any of the artillery or other public property originally captured in the said forts or places, and which shall remain therein upon the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, or any slaves or other private property. And all archives, records, deeds , and papers, either of a public nature, or belonging to private persons, which, in the course of the war, may have fallen into the hands of the

officers of either party, shall be, as far as may be practicable, forthwith restored and delivered to the proper authorities and persons to whom

they respectively belong. Such of the islands in the Bay of Passama-

(a) See notes of the treaties and conventions between the United States and Great Britain, ante, p. 54.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1814.

219

quoddy as are c aimed by both parties, shall remain in the possession of the party in whose occupation they may be at the time of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, until the decision respecting the title to the said islands shall have been made in conformity with the fourth article of this treaty. No disposition made by this treaty, as to such possession of the islands and territories claimed by both parties, shall, in any manner whatever, be construed to affect the right of either.
ARTICLE THE SECOND.
Immediately after the ratifications of this treaty by both parties, as Immediately hereinafter mentioned, orders shall be sent to the armies, squadrons, oornderartsitfiocbateisone,nt officers, subjects and citizens, of the two powers, to cease from all hos- to armies, & c. tilities. And to prevent all causes of complaint which might arise on to cease hostiliaccount of the prizes which may be taken at sea after the said ratifica- ties. tions of this treaty, it is reciprocally agreed, that all vessels and effects which may be taken after the space of twelve days from the said ratifications, upon all parts of the coast of North America, from the latitude of twenty-three degrees north, to the latitude of fifty degrees north , and as far eastward in the Atlantic ocean, as the thirty-sixth degree of west longitude from the meridian of Greenwich, shall be restored on each side : That the time shall be thirty days in all other parts of the Atlantic ocean, Limitation of north of the equinoctial line or equator, and the same time for the British itnimdeifofefrecnatptlautrieand Irish channels, for the Gulf of Mexico and all parts of the West tudes. Indies : Forty days for the North seas, for the Baltic , and for all parts of the Mediterranean : Sixty days for the Atlantic ocean south of the equator, as far as the latitude of the Cape of Good Hope : Ninety days for every other part of the world south of the equator : And one hundred and twenty days for all other parts of the world, without exception.

ARTICLE THE THIRD.

All prisoners of war taken on either side, as well by land as by sea, Prisoners of shall be restored as soon as practicable after the ratifications of this wstaorretdo. be retreaty, as hereinafter mentioned, on their paying the debts which they may have contracted during their captivity. The two contracting parties
respectively engage to discharge, in specie, the advances which may have been made by the other for the sustenance and maintenance of such prisoners.

ARTICLE THE FOURTH.

Whereas it was stipulated by the second article in the treaty of peace, Reference of the boundary
of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, between His Britannic established by
Majesty and the United States of America , that the boundary of the the treaty of

United States should comprehend all islands within twenty leagues of 1783. any part of the shores of the United States, and lying between lines

to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries, between Nova Scotia, on the one part, and East Florida on the other,

shall respectively touch the bay of Fundy, and the Atlantic ocean, excepting such islands as now are, or heretofore have been, within the limits of Nova Scotia ; and whereas the several islands in the Bay of

Passamaquoddy, which is part of the Bay of Fundy, and the island of

Grand Menan in the said Bay of Fundy, are claimed by the United States as being comprehended within their aforesaid boundaries, which

said islands are claimed as belonging to his Britannic Majesty, as having been at the time of, and previous to, the aforesaid treaty of one

thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, within the limits of the province of Nova Scotia : In order, therefore, finally to decide upon these claims, it is agreed that they shall be referred to two commissioners to be appointed in the following manner, viz : one commissioner shall be
appointed by his Britannic Majesty, and one by the president of the

Mode of the acpopmomiinstsmieonnterosf.

220

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1814.

United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof,

and the said two commissioners so appointed shall be sworn impartially

to examine and decide upon the said claims according to such evidence

as shall be laid before them on the part of his Britannic Majesty and of

Meeting ofthe the United States respectively . The said commissioners shall meet at

commissioners. Saint Andrews, in the province of New Brunswick, and shall have power to adjourn to such other place or places as they shall think fit.

The said commissioners shall , by a declaration or report under their

hands and seals , decide to which of the two contracting parties the

several islands aforesaid do respectively belong, in conformity with the

true intent of the said treaty of peace of one thousand seven hundred

In cases of disagreement of commissioners.

and eighty-three. And if the said commissioners shall agree in their decision, both parties shall consider such decision as final and conclusive. It is further agreed , that in the event of the two commissioners differing upon all or any of the matters so referred to them, or in the event of both or either of the said commissioners refusing, or declining,

or wilfully omitting, to act as such , they shall make jointly or separately ,

a report or reports, as well to the Government of his Britannic majesty

as to that of the United States, stating in detail the points on which

they differ, and the grounds upon which their respective opinions have

been formed, or the grounds upon which they, or either of them, have so

refused, declined , or omitted to act. And his Britannic majesty, and the

government ofthe United States, hereby agree to refer the report or reports

of the said commissioners, to some friendly sovereign or state, to be

then named for that purpose, and who shall be requested to decide on the differences which may be stated in the said report or reports, or

upon the report of one commissioner , together with the grounds upon which the other commissioner shall have refused , declined , or omitted

to act, as the case may be. And if the commissioner so refusing, de-

clining, or omitting to act, shall also wilfully omit to state the grounds

upon which he has so done, in such manner that the said statement

Reference to a may be referred to such friendly sovereign or state, together with the

friendly power. report of such other commissioner, then such sovereign or state shall

decide ex parte upon the said report alone. And his Britannic majesty and the government of the United States engage to consider the decision

of such friendly sovereign or state to be final and conclusive on all the matters so referred.

ARTICLE THE FIFTH.

Commission. ers to settle boundaries.
Meeting and cproomcmeiesdsiinognserosf.

Whereas neither that point of the high lands lying due north from the source of the river St. Croix , and designated in the former treaty of peace between the two powers as the northwest angle of Nova-Scotia, nor the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river, has yet been ascertained ; and whereas that part of the boundary line between the dominions ofthe two powers which extends from the source of the river St. Croix directly north to the abovementioned northwest angle of NovaScotia, thence along the said highlands which divide those rivers that empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean to the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river, thence down along the middle of that river to the forty-fifth degree of north latitude ; thence by a line due west on said latitude until it strikes the river Iroquois or Cataraguy, has not yet been surveyed : it is agreed, that for these several purposes two commissioners shall be appointed, sworn, and authorized to act exactly in the manner directed with respect to those mentioned in the next preceding article, unless otherwise specified in the present article. The said commissioners shall meet at St Andrews, in the province of New-Brunswick, and shall have power to adjourn to such other place or places as they shall think fit. The said commissioners shall have power to ascertain and determine the points

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1814.

221

abovementioned, in conformity with the provisions of the said treaty of peace of one thousand seven hundred and eighty three, and shall cause the boundary aforesaid, from the source of the river St. Croix to the
river Iroquois or Cataraguy, to be surveyed and marked according to the said provisions. The said commissioners shall make a map of the said boundary, and annex to it a declaration under their hands and
seals, certifying it to be the true map of the said boundary, and particularizing the latitude and longitude of the northwest angle of NovaScotia, of the northwesternmost head of Connecticut river, and of such
other points of the said boundary as they may deem proper. And both parties agree to consider such map and declaration as finally and conclusively fixing the said boundary. And in the event of the said two In case of dif commissioners differing, or both, or either, of them, refusing, declining, ference, to be
referred to a or wilfully omitting to act, such reports, declarations, or statements, friendly power. shall be made by them, or either of them, and such reference to a friendly sovereign or state, shall be made, in all respects, as in the latter part of the fourth article is contained, and in as full a manner as if the same was herein repeated.

ARTICLE THE SIXTH .

Whereas, by the former treaty of peace that portion of the boundary Doubts asto

of the United States from the point where the forty-fifth degree of north the boundary

latitude

strikes the

river Iroquois

or Cataraguy to the lake Superior,

from a point in theforty- fifth

was declared to be " along the middle of said river into lake Ontario, degree of north

through the middle of said lake until it strikes the communication by latitude, to be

water between that lake and lake Erie, thence along the middle of said rmeifsesriroendetrosc. om

communication into lake Erie, through the middle of said lake until it

arrives at the water communication into the lake Huron , thence through the middle of said lake to the water communication between that lake

and lake Superior." And whereas doubts have arisen what was the middle of the said river, lakes and water communications, and whether certain islands lying in the same were within the dominions of his Bri-

tannic majesty or of the United States : In order, therefore, finally to decide these doubts, they shall be referred to two commissioners, to be appointed, sworn, and authorized to act exactly in the manner directed with respect to those mentioned in the next preceding article, unless otherwise specified in this present article. The said commissioners
shall meet, in the first instance, at Albany, in the state of New-York, and shall have power to adjourn to such other place or places as they shall think fit : The said commissioners shall, by a report or declaration ,

Meeting and cduotmimeisssofiotnheers.

under their hands and seals, designate the boundary through the said river, lakes, and water communications, and decide to which of the two

contracting parties the several islands lying within the said rivers, lakes, and water communications, do respectively belong, in conformity with the true intent of the said treaty of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. And both parties agree to consider such designation and decision as final and conclusive. And in the event of the said two commis-

In case of dis.

sioners differing, or both, or either of them, refusing, declining , or wilfully omitting to act, such reports, declarations or statements, shall be made by them, or either of them, and such reference to a friendly sovereign or state shall be made in all respects as in the latter part of the fourth article is contained, and in as full a manner as if the same was herein repeated .

tahgereceommmeinstsioofners, reference to a friendly power.

ARTICLE THE SEVENTH .

It is further agreed that the said two last-mentioned commissioners, after they shall have executed the duties assigned to them in the preceding article, shall be, and they are hereby authorized, upon their oaths impartially to fix and determine, according to the true intent of the said treaty of peace, of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-
T2

Commission. ers to fix the bwoautnedracroymtmout-he nication between the lakes

222

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1814.

Huron and Superior, and the lake of the
Woods.

three, that part of the boundary between the dominions of the two powers, which extends from the water communication between lake Huron, and lake Superior, to the most north-western point of the lake ofthe Woods, to decide to which of the two parties the several islands

lying in the lakes, water communications, and rivers, forming the said boundary, do respectively belong, in conformity with the true intent of

the said treaty of peace, of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-

three ; and to cause such parts of the said boundary, as require it, to be

surveyed and marked . The said commissioners shall, by a report or declaration under their hands and seals, designate the boundary afore-

said, state their decision on the points thus referred to them, and par-

ticularize the latitude and longitude of the most north-western point of

the lake ofthe Woods, and of such other parts of the said boundary as they may deem proper. And both parties agree to consider such deIn case of dis. signation and decision as final and conclusive. And, in the event of

agreement of commissioners a reference.

the said two commissioners differing, or both, or either ofthem 1efusing, declining, or wilfully omitting to act, such reports, declarations, or statements, shall be made by them, or either of them and such reference

to a friendly sovereign or state, shall be made in all respects, as in the

latter part of the fourth article is contained, and in as full a manner as

if the same was herein repeated.

ARTICLE THE EIGHTH.

The board of commissioners may appoint a secretary, and employ surveyors.
Compensation soifotnheres.commis-

The several boards of two commissioners mentioned in the four preceding articles, shall respectively have power to appoint a secretary, and
to employ such surveyors or other persons as they shall judge necessary. Duplicates of all their respective reports, declarations, statements and decisions, and of their accounts, and of the journal of their proceedings, shall be delivered by them to the agents of his Britannic majesty, and to the agents of the United States, who may be respectively appointed and authorized to manage the business on behalf of their respective governments. The said commissioners shall be respectively paid in such manner as shall be agreed between the two contracting parties, such agreement being to be settled at the time of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty. And all other expenses attending the

said commissions shall be defrayed equally by the two parties. And in

the case of death, sickness, resignation , or necessary absence, the place

of every such commissioner, respectively, shall be supplied in the same

All grants of
land prior to the commencement ofthe war, falling within the
dominions of the other party, to be valid.

manner as such commissioner was first appointed, and the new commissioner shall take the same oath or affirmation, and do the same duties. It is further agreed between the two contracting parties, that
in case any of the islands mentioned in any of the preceding articles, which were in the possession of one of the parties prior to the commencement of the present war between the two countries, should, by the decision of any of the boards of commissioners aforesaid, or of the sovereign or state so referred to, as in the four next preceding articles contained, fall within the dominions of the other party, all grants of

land made previous to the commencement of the war, by the party having had such possession , shall be as valid as if such island or islands

had, by such decision or decisions, been adjudged to be within the dominions of the party having had such possession.

ARTICLE THE NINTH.

Ratification of the Indian treaty .

The United States of America engage to put an end , immediately
after the ratification of the present treaty, to hostilities with all the tribes or nations of Indians with whom they may be at war at the time of such ratification ; and forthwith to restore to such tribes or nations ,

respectively, all the possessions, rights, and privileges, which they may have enjoyed or been entitled to in one thousand eight hundred and

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1814.

223

eleven, previous to such hostilities : Provided always, That such tribes or nations shall agree to desist from all hostilities, against the United States of America, their citizens and subjects, upon the ratification of the present treaty being notified to such tribes or nations, and shall so
desist accordingly. And his Britannic majesty engages, on his part, to put an end inmediately after the ratification of the present treaty, to hostilities with all the ribes or nations of Indians with whom he may be at war at the time of such ratification, and forthwith to restore to such tribes or nations, respectively, all the possessions, rights, and privileges, which they may have enjoyed or been entitled to, in one thousand eight hundred and eleven, previous to such hostilities : Provided always, That such tribes or nations shall agree to desist from all hostilities against his Britannic majesty, and his subjects , upor: the ratification of the present treaty being notified to such tribes or nations, and shall so desist accordingly.

ARTICLE THE TENTH.

Whereas the traffic in slaves is irreconcileable with the principles of humanity and justice, and whereas both his Majesty and the United States are desirous of continuing their efforts to promote its entire abolition, it is hereby agreed that both the contracting parties shall use their best endeavors to accomplish so desirable an object.

Contracting
ptahretiirebsesshtalelnuse deavors to promote the entire abolition of the slave trade.

ARTICLE THE ELEVENTH.

Post. p. 572.

This treaty, when the same shall have been ratified on both sides, This treaty to without alteration by either of the contracting parties, and the ratifica- bwehebninrdaitnifgications mutually exchanged, shall be binding on both parties, and the tions ex-
ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington, in the space of four changed . months from this day, or sooner, if practicable.

IN FAITH WHEREOF, we, the respective plenipotentiaries, have signed this treaty, and have thereunto affixed our seals.

Done, in triplicate, at Ghent, the twenty -fourth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen.

GAMBIER, HENRY GOULBURN, WILLIAM ADAMS, JOIN QUINCY ADAMS, J. A. BAYARD, II. CLAY , JONA. RUSSELL , ALBERT GALLATIN.

(L. S.) (L. S. (L. S. (L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S. L. S. (L.L. 8.

TREATY OF PEACE AND AMITY ,

June 30, and July 6 , 1815.

Concluded between the United States of America and his Highness Omar Bashan, Dey of Algiers.

Peace and friendship .

ART. 1. There shall be, from the conclusion of this Treaty, a firm,
inviolable, and universal, peace and friendship between the President and Citizens of the United States of America, on the one part, and the

Favors in Navigation and commerce to be common to
each, & c.

Dey and Subjects of the Regency of Algiers, in Barbary, on the other, made by the free consent of both parties, and on the terms of the most favored nations : And if either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation any particular favor or privilege in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become common to the other party ; freely, when it
is freely granted to such other nations ; but when the grant is conditional, it shall be at the option of the contracting parties to accept, alter, or reject, such conditions, in such manner as shall be most conducive to their respective interests.

Abolition of tribute in any
form .

ART. 2. It is distinctly understood between the contracting parties, that no tribute, either as biennial presents, or under any other form or name whatever, shall ever be required by the Dey and Regency of Algiers from the United States of America, on any pretext whatever.

American citi-
zens to be delivered up.

ART. 3. The Dey of Algiers shall cause to be immediately delivered up to the American squadron now off Algiers, all the American citizens now in his possession, amounting to ten, more or less ; and all the subjects of the Dey of Algiers, now in possession of the United States, amounting to five hundred, more or less, shall be delivered up to him; the United States, according to the usages of civilized nations, requiring no ransom for the excess of prisoners in their favor.

Indemnifica-

ART. 4. A just and full compensation shall be made by the Dey of

tion to Ameridceatnenctitiioznenasnfdor loss ofproperty, & c.
Ante, page 133.
Bales of cotton

Algiers to such citizens of the United States as have been captured and detained by Algerine cruisers, or who have been forced to abandon their property in Algiers, in violation of the twenty-second article of the Treaty of Peace and Amity, concluded between the United States and the Dey of Algiers, on the fifth of September, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five.
And it is agreed between the contracting parties, that, in lieu of the

lainedu. $10,000 in

above, the Dey of Algiers shall cause to be delivered forthwith into the hands of the American Consul residing at Algiers, the whole of a quantity of bales of cotton left by the late Consul General of the United

States in the public magazines in Algiers ; and that he shall pay into the hands of the said Consul the sum of ten thousand Spanish dollars .

Enemies' pro-
perty to pass free in vessels of each party.

ART. 5. If any goods belonging to any nation with which either of
the parties are at war, should be loaded on board vessels belonging to the other party, they shall pass free and unmolested, and no attempts shall be made to take or detain them.

Citizens or subjects taken on board an enemy's vessel
to be liberated.

ART. 6. If any citizens or subjects, with their effects, belonging to either party, shall be found on board a prize vessel taken from an enemy by the other party, such citizens or subjects shall be liberated immediately, and in no case, or on any other pretence whatever, shall any American citizen be kept in captivity or confinement, or the property
(224)

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1815.

225

of any American citizen found on board of any vessel belonging to any other nation with which Algiers may be at war, be detained from its lawful owners after the exhibition of sufficient proofs of American citizenship and of American property, by the Consul of the United States residing at Algiers.

ART. 7. Proper passports shall immediately be given to the vessels Passports to ofboth the contracting parties, on condition that the vessels of war belong- vessels of each ing to the Regency of Algiers, on meeting with merchant vessels be- poafrvtiysi,tarned- right longing to the citizens of the United States of America, shall not be stricted.
permitted to visit them with more than two persons besides the rowers ;
these only shall be permitted to go on board without first obtaining leave from the commander of said vessel, who shall compare the pass-
port, and immediately permit said vessel to proceed on her voyage ; and
should any of the subjects of Algiers insult or molest the commander, Offenders to be or any other person on board a vessel so visited, or plunder any of the punished for
abusing the property contained in her, on complaint being made by the Consul of right of visit. the United States residing in Algiers, and on his producing sufficient
proof to substantiate the fact, the commander or rais of said Algerine ship or vessel of war, as well as the offenders, shall be punished in the most exemplary manner.
All vessels of war belonging to the United States of America, on meet- Vessels ofwar
ing a cruiser belonging to the Regency of Algiers, on having seen her of U. S. to suf fer Algerine
passports and certificates from the Consul of the United States residing cruisers to pass, in Algiers, shall permit her to proceed on her cruise unmolested, and &c. without detention. No passport shall be granted by either party to any
vessels, but such as are absolutely the property of citizens or subjects
of the said contracting parties, on any pretence whatever.
ART. 8. A citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties What shall be sufficient pass-
having bought a prize vessel condemned by the other party, or by any port. other nation, the certificates of condemnation and bill of sale shall be a
sufficient passport for such vessel for six months ; which, considering the distance between the two countries, is no more than a reasonable time for her to procure proper passports.

ART. 9. Vessels of either of the contracting parties putting into ports Provisions to of the other, and having need of provisions or other supplies, shall be bveessfeulrsniasthemdatro. furnished at the market price ; and if any such vessel should so put in ket price. from a disaster at sea, and have occasion to repair, she shall be at liberty to land and re-embark her cargo, without paying any customs or duties whatever ; but in no case shall she be compelled to land her cargo.

ART. 10. Should a vessel of either of the contracting parties be cast Assistance to on shore within the territories of the other, all proper assistance shall be given to the be given to her crew ; no pillage shall be allowed ; the property shall tcercetwio, natnodtphreoremain at the disposal of the owners ; and, if reshipped on board of any property of ves vessel for exportation , no customs or duties whatever shall be required sels cast ashore.
to be paid thereon , and the crew shall be protected and succored until they can be sent to their own country.

ART. 11. If a vessel of either of the contracting parties shall be attacked by an enemy within cannon-shot of the forts of the other, she shall be protected as much as is possible. If she be in port, she shall not be seized or attacked , when it is in the power of the other party to protect her ; and when she proceeds to sea, no enemy shall be permitted to pursue her from the same port within twenty-four hours after her departure.

How vessels meda.y be protect

ART. 12. The commerce between the United States of America and
the Regency of Algiers, the protections to be given to merchants, VOL VIII. 29

226

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1815.

Commerce, masters of vessels, and seamen, the reciprocal rights of establishing
& c. on the foot- Consuls in each country, and the privileges, immunities, and jurisdicing of the most . favored nations. tions, to be enjoyed by such Consuls, are declared to be on the same

footing, in every respect, with the most favored nations, respectively.

Consul of U.S. ART. 13. The consul of the United States of America shall not be

nfoort dreebstpsonosfible responsible for the debts contracted by citizens of his own nation , uncitizens, & c. less he previously gives written obligations so to do.

Salutes to ves- ART. 14. On a vessel or vessels of war belonging to the United States

sels of war of

U.S.

anchoring before the city of Algiers, the Consul is to inform the Dey

of her arrival, when she shall receive the salutes which are, by treaty

or custom, given to the ships of war of the most favored nations on

similar occasions, and which shall be returned gun for gun ; and if after such arrival, so announced, any Christians whatsoever, captives in Al-

giers, make their escape and take refuge on board any of the ships of war, they shall not be required back again, nor shall the Consul of the United States or commanders of said ships be required to pay any thing for the said Christians.

Pretexts arising from religious opinions, not to interrupt harmony, & c.
Consuls may travel within the territories of each party, & c.

ART. 15. As the government of the United States of America has, in itself, no character of enmity against the laws, religion , or tranquillity, of any nation, and as the said states have never entered into any voluntary war, or act of hostility, except in defence of their just rights on the high seas, it is declared, by the contracting parties, that no pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony existing between the two nations ; and the Consuls and Agents of both nations shall have liberty to celebrate the rites of their respective religions in their own houses.
The Consuls, respectively, shall have liberty and personal security given them to travel within the territories of each other, both by land and sea, and shall not be prevented from going on board any vessels they may think proper to visit ; they shall likewise have liberty to appoint their own drogoman and broker.

How disputes ART. 16. In case of any dispute arising from the violation of any of m&acy. be settled, the articles of this treaty, no appeal shall be made to arms, nor shall
war be declared on any pretext whatever ; but if the Consul residing at the place where the dispute shall happen shall not be able to settle the same, the government of that country shall state their grievance in writing and transmit the same to the government of the other, and the period of three months shall be allowed for answers to be returned, during which time no act of hostility shall be permitted by either party ; and in case the grievances are not redressed , and a war should be the event,
the Consuls, and citizens, and subjects, of both parties, respectively, shall be permitted to embark with their effects unmolested , on board of what vessel or vessels they shall think proper, reasonable time being allowed for that purpose.

Prisoners of war not to be made slaves ; but to be exchanged, & c. within 12 months.
Powers at war with U. S. not
to be sufferedto sell American captured ves sels at Algiet9.

ART. 17. If, in the course of events, a war should break out between the two nations, the prisoners captured by either party shall not be made slaves ; they shall not be forced to hard labor, or other confinement than such as may be necessary to secure their safe keeping, and shall be exchanged rank for rank ; and it is agreed that prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months after their capture ; and the exchange may be effected by any private individual legally authorized by either of the parties.
ART. 18. If any of the Barbary States , or other powers at war with the United States, shall capture any American vessel and send her into any port of the Regency of Algiers , they shall not be permitted to sel her , but shall be forced to depart the port on procuring the requisite

TREATY WITH ALGIERS . 1815.

227

supplies of provisions ; but the vessels of war of the United States, with any prizes they may capture from their enemies, shall have liberty to frequent the ports of Algiers for refreshments of any kind, and to sell such prizes in the said ports, without any other customs or duties than such as are customary on ordinary commercial importations.

ART. 19. If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their protection , shall have any disputes with each other, the Consul shall decide between the parties ; and whenever the Consul shall
require any aid or assistance from the government of Algiers to enforce his decision, it shall be immediately granted to him ; and if any disputes shall arise between any citizens of the United States and the citizens or subjects of any other nation having a Consul or Agent in Algiers, such disputes shall be settled by the Consuls or Agents of the respective nations ; and any disputes or suits at law that may take place between any citizens of the United States and the subjects of the Regency of Algiers, shall be decided by the Dey in person, and no other.

Consul of U.S.
to decide dispAumteersibceatnwecietinzens, & c.

ART. 20. If a citizen of the United States should kill, wound , or In case of kill.

strike, a subject of Algiers, or, on the contrary, a subject of Algiers ing, wounding, or striking, the
should kill, wound, or strike, a citizen of the United States, the law law ofthe

of the country shall take place, and equal justice shall be rendered , the country to pre-

Consul assisting at the trial ; but the sentence of punishment against an vail , &c.

American citizen shall not be greater or more severe than it would be

against a Turk in the same predicament ; and if any delinquent should

make his escape, the Consul shall not be responsible for him in any manner whatever.
Consul of U.S.

ART. 21. The Consul of the United States of America shall not be not to pay duties on what he

required to pay any customs or duties whatever on any thing he imports imports forhis

from a foreign country for the use of his house and family.

house and

family.

ART. 22. Should any of the citizens of the United States of America Citizens of

die, within the limits of the Regency of Algiers, the Dey and his sub- U. S. dying jects shall not interfere with the property of the deceased, but it shall gwietnhciyn otfheAlR-ebe under the immediate direction of the Consul , unless otherwise dis- giers, their pro-

posed of by will . Should there be no Consul , the effects shall be de- pdeerrttyhteodbireecu-nposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party tion of the con-
shall appear who has a right to demand them, when they shall render sul, unless, & c.

an account of the property ; neither shall the Dey or his subjects give hindrance in the execution of any will that may appear.

I certify the foregoing to be a true copy of a Treaty of Peace negotiated by Commodore Decatur and myself with the Regency of Algiers, and signed by the Dey of that Regency on the 30 June, On board the U. S. S. Guerriere, 6 July, 1815.
WM. SHALER.

A CONVENTION

July 3, 1815.

To regulate the Commerce between the Territories of the United States and of his Britannick Majesty. (a)

Ratified by the
Prince Regent
o1n81t5h;e a31nsdt bJuyly, the President and Senate on the 22d of Dec. 1815 ; on which latter day the ratifications
were exchang. ed at Washing. ton.

THE United States of America and his Britannick majesty being de sirous, by a Convention , to regulate the commerce and navigation between their respective countries, territories, and people, in such a
manner as to render the same reciprocally beneficial and satisfactory, have, respectively, named plenipotentiaries, and given them full powers, to treat of and conclude such Convention ; that is to say, the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, hath appointed, for their plenipotentiaries, John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay, and Albert Gallatin, citizens of the United States ; and his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, has named , for his plenipotentiaries, the right honorable Frederick John Robinson , vice-president of the committee of privy council for trade and plantations, joint paymaster of his majesty's forces, and a member of the imperial parliament, Henry Goulbourn, Esq. a member of the imperial parliament, and under secretary of state, and William Adams, Esq. doctor of civil laws ; and the said plenipotentiaries having mutually produced and shown their said full powers, and exchanged copies of the same, have agreed on and concluded the following articles, vide licet :

Reciprocal

ARTICLE 1. There shall be between the territories of the United

lmiebrecrtey boeftcwoementhe Territories of U. S. and the British Territo ries in Europe.

States of America, and all the territories of his Britannick majesty in Europe, a reciprocal liberty of commerce. The inhabitants of the two
countries, respectively, shall have liberty freely and securely to come with their ships and cargoes to all such places, ports, and rivers, in the territories aforesaid, to which other foreigners are permitted to come,

to enter into the same, and to remain and reside in any parts of the

said territories, respectively ; also to hire and occupy houses and ware-

houses for the purposes of their commerce ; and, generally, the merchants and traders of each nation, respectively, shall enjoy the most

complete protection and security for their commerce, but subject always to the laws and statutes of the two countries, respectively.

No higher or ART. 2. No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importa-

other duties on tion into the United States of any articles, the growth, produce, or

productions of each country,

manufacture, of his Britannick majesty's territories in Europe, and no

than on those higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the ter-

of other foreign ritories of his Britannick majesty in Europe of any articles, the growth, countries.
produce, or manufacture, of the United States, than are or shall be pay-

able on the like articles being the growth, produce, or manufacture, of

any other foreign country ; nor shall any higher or other duties or

charges be imposed in either of the two countries, on the exportation

of any articles to the United States, or to his Britannick majesty's ter-

ritories in Europe, respectively, than such as are payable on the expor-. tation of the like articles to any other foreign country ; nor shall any

prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles,

(a) See notes of the Treaties and Conventions between the United States and Great Britain , ante, Dage 54.
(228)

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1815.

229

the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the United States, or of his

Britannick majesty's territories in Europe, to or from the said territories of his Britannick majesty in Europe, or to or from the said United States, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.
No higher or other duties or charges shall be imposed in any of the ports of the United States on British vessels, than those payable in the same ports by vessels of the United States ; nor in the ports of any of his Britannick majesty's territories in Europe on the vessels of the United States, than shall be payable in the same ports on British vessels.

Equality of
duties on Ame rican and British vessels.

The same duties shall be paid on the importation into the United Same duties States of any articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of his Bri- on productions tannick majesty's territories in Europe, whether such importation shall ofeach country.

be in vessels of the United States or in British vessels, and the same

duties shall be paid on the importation into the ports of any of his Bri-

tannick majesty's territories in Europe, of any article, the growth, pro-

duce, or manufacture, of the United States, whether such importation shall be in British vessels or in vessels of the United States.

The same duties shall be paid, and the same bounties allowed, on the exportation of any articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of his Britannick majesty's territories in Europe to the United States, whether such exportation shall be in vessels of the United States or in British vessels ; and the same duties shall be paid, and the same bounties al-

Equality of
duties and bounties, & c.

lowed, on the exportation of any articles, the growth, produce, or manu-

facture, of the United States, to his Britannick majesty's territories in

Europe, whether such exportation shall be in British vessels or in vessels of the United States.

It is further agreed, that in all cases where drawbacks are, or may be, Drawbacks

allowed upon the re-exportation of any goods, the growth, produce, or the same, & c.

manufacture, of either country, respectively, the amount of the said drawbacks shall be the same, whether the said goods shall have been

originally imported in a British or an American vessel ; but when such

re- exportation shall take place from the United States in a British vessel,

or from the territories of his Britannick majesty in Europe in an American vessel, to any other foreign nation , the two contracting parties

reserve to themselves, respectively, the right of regulating or diminishing, in such case, the amount of the said drawback.
The intercourse between the United States and his Britannick majesty's possessions in the West Indies, and on the continent of North America, shall not be affected by any of the provisions of this article, but each party shall remain in the complete possession of its rights, with respect to such an intercourse.
ART. 3. His Britannick majesty agrees that the vessels of the United

Intercourse
withthe British West Indies and North
American Con.
tsiinoennstanlotPoasffseecsted by this article.
Vessels of

States of America shall be admitted and hospitably received at the principal settlements of the British dominions in the East Indies, vide licet :
Calcutta, Madras, Bombay, and Prince of Wales' Island ; and that the citizens of the said United States may freely carry on trade between the said principal settlements and the said United States, in all articles

U. S. may trade t&o cC.adlicruetctta, ,in articles not entirely prohibited.

of which the importation and exportation, respectively, to and from the

said territories, shall not be entirely prohibited ; provided only, that it

shall not be lawful for them, in any time of war between the British government and any state or power whatever, to export from the said

territories, without the special permission of the British government, any military stores, or naval stores, or rice. The citizens of the United States Citizens of

shall pay for their vessels, when admitted, no higher or other duty or charge than shall be payable on the vessels of the most favoured European nations, and they shall pay no higher or other duties or charges on the importation or exportation of the cargoes of the said vessels, than shall
U

mU.orSe. tnhoatntoispay paid on vessels of the most favoured nation

230

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1815.

Articles must
be conveyed direct to U. S. and be unladen.

be payable on the same articles when imported or exported in the vessels of the most favoured European nations.
But it is expressly agreed, that the vessels of the United States shall not carry any articles from the said principal settlements to any port or place, except to some port or place in the United States of America, where the same shall be unladen.

Vessels ofU.S. It is also understood, that the permission granted by this article is not not to carry on to extend to allow the vessels of the United States to carry on any part the coasting trade in the Bri- of the coasting trade of the said British territories ; but the vessels of
tish East Indies. the United States having, in the first instance, proceeded to one of the
said principal settlements of the British dominions in the East Indies,
and then going with their original cargoes, or part thereof, from one of

American vesBels may touch for refreshment, & c.

the said principal settlements to another, shall not be considered as carrying on the coasting trade. The vessels of the United States may also touch for refreshment, but not for commerce, in the course of their voyage to or from the British territories in India, or to or from the dominions of the emperor of China, at the Cape of Good Hope, the Island

of St. Helena,(a) or such other places as may be in the possession of Great Britain, in the African or Indian seas ; it being well understood

that in all that regards this article, the citizens of the United States

Consuls to reside in the do. minions of each party.

shall be subject, in all respects, to the laws and regulations of the British government from time to time established.
ART. 4. It shall be free for each of the two contracting parties, re-
spectively, to appoint consuls for the protection of trade, to reside in the dominions and territories of the other party ; but before any consul shall act as such, he shall, in the usual form, be approved and admitted

How they may by the government to which he is sent ; and it is hereby declared , that, be punished. in case of illegal or improper conduct towards the laws or government

of the country to which he is sent, such consul may either be punished according to law, if the laws will reach the case, or be sent back, the

Particular

offended government assigning to the other the reasons for the same. It is hereby declared , that either of the contracting parties may ex-

places excepted cept from the residence of consuls, such particular places as such party from the residence of con- shall judge fit to be so excepted. suls.
This conven- ART. 5. This Convention, when the same shall have been duly rati-

tion, when ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and

fgiaetdo,rtyofboer foobulir- consent of their Senate, and by his Britannick majesty, and the respec-

years.

tive ratifications mutually exchanged, shall be binding and obligatory on

Exchange of ratifications in six months, or, & c.

the said United States and his majesty for four years from the date of its signature ;(b) and the ratifications shall be exchanged in six months from this time, or sooner, if possible.

Done at London, this third day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen.

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, H. CLAY, ALBERT GALLATIN , FREDERICK JOHN ROBINSON , HENRY GOULBURN , WILLIAM ADAMS.
(a) See the " Declaration," at the end of this Convention, page 231 . (b) Continued for 10 years by the 4th Article of the Convention of London , of 20th October, 1818 post, 249.

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

231

DECLARATION.

The undersigned, his Britannick majesty's chargé d'affaires in the Declaration of

United States of America, is commanded by his royal highness the 24th Nov. 1815

Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, to explain and declare, upon the exchange of the ratifications of the Con-

vention concluded at London, on the third of July of the present year,

for regulating the commerce and navigation between the two countries, that, in consequence of events which have happened in Europe subsequent to the signature of the Convention aforesaid, it has been deemed

expedient, and determined, in conjunction with the allied sovereigns

that St. Helena shall be the place allotted for the future residence of general Napoleon Bonaparte, under such regulations as may be neces- All vessels,

sary for the perfect security of his person, and it has been resolved, for etxhceeEpatstthIonsdeioaf that purpose, that all ships and vessels whatever, as well British ships Company, exand vessels as others, excepting only ships belonging to the East-India cluded from ap

company, shall be excluded from all communication with, or approach pIrsolaancdh.ing the to, that Island.

It has therefore become impossible to comply with so much of the third article of the treaty as relates to the liberty of touching for refreshment at the Island of St. Helena, and the ratifications of the said treaty will be exchanged under the explicit declaration and understand-

Vessels ofthe U. S. must not touch at St. Helena.

ing, that the vessels of the United States cannot be allowed to touch at,

or hold any communication whatever with, the said Island , so long as

the said Island shall continue to be the place of residence of the said

Napoleon Bonaparte.(a)

(Signed)

ANTHONY ST. JNO. BAKER.

Washington, November 24, 1815.

ARRANGEMENT

Between the United States and Great Britain , between Richard April, 18 .

Rush, Esq., acting as Secretary of the Department of State, Proclamation

and Charles Bagot, His Britannic Majesty's Envoy Extraor- oofftthheePUrneistieddent

dinary, &c.

States, April 28,

1818.

THE naval force to be maintained upon the American lakes, by his majesty Naval force on

and the government of the United States, shall henceforth be confined to the the lakes.

following vessels on each side ; that is-

On lake Ontario, to one vessel not exceeding one hundred tons burden, and Lake Ontario.

armed with one eighteen pound cannon.

On the upper lakes, to two vessels, not exceeding like burden each, and armed Upper Lakes. with like force.

On the waters of lake Champlain, to one vessel not exceeding like burden, Lake Cham-

and armed with like force.

plain.

All other armed vessels on these lakes shall be forthwith dismantled, and no Other vesselsto

other vessels of war shall be there built or armed.

be dismantled.

If either party should hereafter be desirous of annulling this stipulation, and
should give notice to that effect to the other party, it shall cease to be binding after the expiration of six months from the date of such notice.
The naval force so to be limited shall be restricted to such services as will, in no respect, interfere with the proper duties of the armed vessels of the other party.

Stipulation may mceoanstehosn' nsoitxice.
Naval force to be restricted, & c.

(a) In consequence of the death of Napoleon Bonaparte, the British Government notified the Minister of the United States at London , of the cessation of this restriction, on the 30th July, 1821 .

TREATY WITH SWEDEN . (a)

Sept. 4, 1816. Ratified May 27, 1818. The partiesde sirous of maintaining and con. firming rela tions of friendship and commerce .
Full powers exchanged.

In the name of the most Holy and Indivisible Trinity. THE United States of America, and his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, equally animated with a sincere desire to maintain and confirm the relations of friendship and commerce which have hitherto subsisted between the two states, and being convinced that this object
cannot be more effectually accomplished than by establishing, reciprocally, the commerce between the two states upon the firm basis of liberal and equitable principles, equally advantageous to both countries, have named, to this end, plenipotentiaries, and have furnished them with the necessary full powers to treat, and, in their name, to conclude a treaty, to wit : The President of the United States, Jonathan Russell, a citizen of the said United States, and now their Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Stockholm ; and his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, his Excellency the Count Laurent d'Engestrom, his Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Chancellor of the University of Lund, Knight Commander of the Orders of the King, Knight of the Order of Charles XIII, Grand Cross of the Orders of St. Etienne of Hungary, of the Legion of Honour of France, of the Black Eagle and of the Red Eagle of Prussia, and the Count Adolphe George de Morner, his Counsellor of State, and Commander of the Order of the Polar Star : and the said plenipotentiaries, after having produced and exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed on the following articles :

ARTICLE 1.

Reciprocal

There shall be between all the territories under the dominion of the

mliebrecrtey. of com- United States of America, and of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, a reciprocal liberty of commerce. The inhabitants of either

Complete security for mer. chants and
traders.

of the two countries shall have liberty, with all security for their persons, vessels, and cargoes, to come freely to all ports, places, and rivers, within the territories of the other, into which the vessels of the most favoured nations are permitted to enter. They can there remain and reside in any part whatsoever of the said territories ; they can there hire and occupy houses and warehouses for their commerce ; and, generally, the merchants and traders of each of the two nations, shall enjoy in the other the most complete security and protection for the transaction of their business, being bound, alone, to conform to the laws and statutes of the two countries, respectively.

ARTICLE 2.

No other or
higher duties, & c . than the same articles would be sub-

No other or higher duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, shall be imposed on the importation into the territories of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, of the produce or manufactures of the United States, nor on the importation into the United States of the produce or

jected to ifthey were the

manufactures of the territories of his Majesty the King of Sweden and

growth, pro- Norway, than those to which the same articles would be subjected in

duce, or manu- each of the two countries, respectively, if these articles were the growth,

foatchteurreco, uonftarnyy. produce , or manufacture, of any other country. The same principle shall likewise be observed in respect to exportation , in such manner

that in each of the two countries, respectively, the articles which shall

be exported for the other, cannot be charged with any duty, impost, or

(a ) A Treaty of Amity and Commerce , concluded between his majesty the King of Sweden, and the United States of North America, April 3, 1783, ante , page 60.
(232)

TRAITÉ A SUÈDE .
Au nom de la très Sainte et Indivisible Trinité. LES Etats Unis d'Amérique et sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, également animés du désir sincère de maintenir et consolider les rélations d'amitié et de commerce qui ont subsisté jusqu'ici entre les deux etats, et étant convaincus qu'on ne saurait mieux remplir cet objet qu'en établissant réciproquement le commerce entre les deux etats, sur la base solide de principes libéraux et équitables également avantageux aux deux pays, ont nommé pour cet effet des plénipotentiaires, et les ont munis des pouvoirs nécessaires pour traiter et conclure en leur nom, savoir le Président des Etats Unis, Monsieur Jonathan Russell, citoyen des dits Etats Unis, et actuellement leur Ministre Plénipotentiaire à la Cour de Stockholm, et sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, son Excellence Monsieur le Comte Laurent d'Engeström, son Ministre d'Etat pour les Affaires Etrangères, Chancélier de l'Université de Lund, Chevalier Commandeur des ordres du Roi , Chevalier de l'ordre du Roi Charles XIII , Grand Croix des ordres de St. Etienne de Hongrie, de la Legion d'Honneur de France, de l'Aigle Noir et de l'Aigle Rouge de Prusse, et Monsieur le Comte Adolphe George de Mörner, son Conseiller d'Etat, et Commandeur de l'ordre de l'Etoile Polaire ; lesquels plénipotentiaires, après avoir produit et échangés leurs pleinpouvoirs trouvés en bonne et duê forme, sont convenus des articles suivans :
ARTICLE PREMIER.
Il y aura liberté réciproque de commerce entre tous les pays de la domination des Etats Unis d'Amérique et de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège. Les habitans de l'un des deux pays pourront avec toute sûreté, pour leur personnes, vaisseaux et cargaisons, aborder librement dans les ports, places et rivières du territoire de l'autre, partout où l'entrée est permise aux vaisseaux des nations les plus favorisées. Ils pourront s'y arrêter et résider dans quelque partie que ce soit des dits territoires ; ils pourront y louer et occuper des maisons et des magasins pour leur commerce, et généralement les négocians ou trafiquans de chacune des deux nations jouiront chez l'autre de la plus entière sécurité et protection pour les affaires de leur négoce, étant seulement tenus à se conformer aux loix et ordonnances des deux pays respectifs.
ARTICLE SECOND.
Il ne sera point imposé de plus forts ou autres droits, impôts, ou charges quelconques sur l'importation dans les Etats Unis des productions du sol ou des manufactures des etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, ni sur l'importation dans les etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège des productions du sol ou des manufactures des Etats Unis, que ceux auxquels seraient assujettis les mêmes articles dans chacun des deux pays respectifs, si ces denrées étaient le produit du sol ou des manufactures de tout autre pays. Le même principe sera aussi observé pour l'exportation , en sorte que dans chacun des deux pays respectifs les articles qui seront exportés pour l'autre ne pourront être chargés d'aucun droit, impôt, ou charge quelconque plus

VOL. VIII. 30

U2

(233)

234

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

charge, whatsoever, higher or other than those to which the same articles would be subjected if they were exported to any other country whatever.

No prohibition on exportation or importation which does not extend to all
other nations.

Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any article, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the territories of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, or ofthe United States, to or from the said territories of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, or to or from the said United States, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

Equalization of duties as to
the vessels and cargoes of either nation, &c.

Swedish or Norwegian vessels arriving in ballast, or importing into the United States the produce or manufactures of their countries, or exporting from the United States the produce or manufactures of said
States, shall not be obliged to pay, either for the vessels or the cargoes,

any other or higher duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, than those

which the vessels of the United States would pay in the same circum-

stances ; and, vice versa, the vessels of the United States, arriving in

ballast, or importing into the territories under the dominion of his

Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, the produce or manufactures

of the United States, or exporting from the territories under the domin-

ion of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, the produce or

manufactures of these territories, shall not pay, either for the vessels or

the cargoes, any other or higher duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever,

than those which would be paid if these articles were transported by

Swedish or Norwegian vessels, respectively.

Equalization of duties extended to the
colony of St. Bartholomews.

That which is here above stipulated, shall also extend to the Swedish colony of St. Barthelemy, as well in what relates to the rights and advantages which the vessels of the United States shall enjoy in its ports, as in relation to those which the vessels of the colony shall enjoy in the ports of the United States, provided the owners are inhabitants of St. Barthelemy, and there established and naturalized , and shall have there caused their vessels to be naturalized .

( This article not ratified.)

ARTICLE 3.*
His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, agrees that all articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the West Indies, which are permitted to be imported in Swedish or Norwegian vessels, whether these articles be imported, directly or indirectly, from said Indies, may likewise be imported into its territories in vessels of the United States, and there shall not be paid, either for the said vessels or the cargoes, any higher or other duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, than those which would be paid by Swedish or Norwegian vessels in the same circumstances, with an addition only of ten per centum on the said duties, imposts, and charges, and no more.

In order to avoid misapprehension in this respect, it is expressly
declared, that the term " West Indies" ought to be taken in its most extensive sense, comprising all that portion of the earth, whether main land or islands, which at any time has been denominated the West Indies, in contradistinction to that other portion of the earth denominated the East Indies.

( This article not ratified.)

ARTICLE 4. *
The United States of America, on their part, agree, that all articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the countries surrounding the Baltic sea, or bordering thereon, which are permitted to be imported in vessels of the United States , whether these articles be imported , directly or indirectly, from the Baltic , may likewise be imported into the United States in Swedish or Norwegian vessels ; and there shall not then be

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

235

fort ou autre que ceux auxquels seraient assujettis les mêmes articles, s'ils étaient exportés pour tout autre pays quelconque.

Il ne sera non plus imposé aucune prohibition , ni sur l'exportation ni sur l'importation d'aucun article provenant du sol ou des manufactures des Etats Unis ou des pays de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, dans ou hors les dits Etats Unis, et dans ou hors les dits pays de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, qui en s'étende également à toutes les autres nations.
Les vaisseaux des Etats Unis d'Amérique arrivant sur leur lest ou important dans les Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et Norvège des produits du sol ou de l'industrie de leur pays, ou exportant des Etats de sa Majesté Suédoise et Norvegienne les produits du sol ou de l'industrie nationale des dits Etats, ne seront tenus à payer, ni pour les vais-
seaux ni pour les cargaisons aucuns droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, plus forts ou autres que ceux que payeraient dans le même cas les vaisseaux des Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvèges, et vice versa ; les vaisseaux des Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège qui arrivent sur leur lest ou qui importent dans les Etats Unis de l'Amérique des productions du sol ou de l'industrie nationale de la Suède et de la Norvège, ou qui exportent des Etats Unis des produits du sol ou de l'industrie de ces pays, ne payeront ni pour les vaisseaux ni pour les cargaisons aucuns droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, autres ou plus forts que ceux qui seraient payés si ces mêmes denrées étaient transportées par des vaisseaux des Etats Unis respectivement.
Ce qui est statué ci-dessus s'étendra aussi à la colonie Suédoise de St. Barthelemy, tant par rapport aux droits et avantages dont les vaisseaux des Etats Unis jouiront dans ses ports que par rapport à ceux dont les vaisseaux de la colonie jouiront dans les ports des Etats Unis ; bien entendu que les propriétaires soyent colons établis et naturalisés à St. Barthelemy, et qu'ils y ayent fait naturaliser leurs vaisseaux.

ARTICLE TROISIÈME.
Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège consent que tous les articles qui sont le produit du sol ou des manufactures des Indes Occidentales et dont l'entrée est permise dans des vaisseaux Suédois ou Norvégiens, soit que ces marchandises viennent directement ou indirectement des dites Indes, puissent aussi être importés dans ses Etats par des vaisseaux des Etats Unis, et qu'alors il ne sera payé ni pour les dits vaisseaux, ni pour les cargaisons, de droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, plus forts ou autres que ceux qui seraient payés par des vaisseaux Suédois ou Norvégiens dans le même cas, avec une addition seulement de dix pour cent sur les dits droits, impots, ou charges, et pas davantage.
Pour éviter tout mésentendu à cet égard il est ici expressement declaré, que la dénomination d'Indes Occidentales doit être prise dans le sens le plus étendu en y comprenant toute cette partie du monde, soit îles ou terre ferme, qui de tout tems a été appellée Indes Occidentales, en opposition avec cette autre partie du monde appellée Indes Orientales.
ARTICLE QUATRIÈME.
De leur coté les Etats Unis d'Amérique consentent à ce que tous les articles qui sont les produits du sol ou des manufactures des pays qui bordent ou environnent la mer Baltique et dont l'entrée est permise dans les vaisseaux des Etats Unis, soit que ces denrées viennent directement ou indirectement de la Baltique, puissent aussi être importés de même dans les Etats Unis, par des vaisseaux Suédois ou Norvégiens, et qu'a-

236

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

paid for the said vessels, or for the cargoes, any higher or other duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, than those which would be paid by vessels of the United States in the same circumstances, with an addi-
tion only of ten per centum on the said duties, imposts, and charges, and no more.
In order to avoid all uncertainty in respect to the duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, which a vessel belonging to the citizens or subjects of one of the contracting parties ought to pay, on arriving in the ports of the other, with a cargo consisting partly of articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the country to which the vessel belongs, and partly of any other merchandize, which the said vessel is permitted to import by the preceding articles, it is agreed that, in case a cargo should be thus mixed, the vessel shall always pay the duties, imposts, and charges, according to the nature of that part of the cargo which is subjected to the highest duties, in the same manner as if the vessel imported this sort of merchandise only.

ARTICLE 5.

Consuls, & c.

The high contracting parties grant mutually the liberty of having in

the places of commerce and ports of the other, consuls, vice consuls , or

commercial agents, who shall enjoy all the protection and assistance Proceedings necessary for the due discharge of their functions. But it is here ex-

against consuls, pressly declared, that in case of illegal or improper conduct in respect

& c. offending

against the

to the laws or government of the country to which they are sent, the

laws.

said consul, vice consul, or agent, may be either punished according to

law, dismissed, or sent away, by the offended government, that govern-

Archives, &c. ment assigning to the other the reasons therefor. It is, nevertheless,

inviolate.

understood, that the archives and documents relative to the affairs of

the consulate shall be protected from all examination , and shall be carefully preserved, being placed under the seal of the consul and of the

Consuls and
their deputies to have the
right to act as judges, & c.
Limitation of the right.

authority of the place where he shall have resided. The consuls and their deputies shall have the right, as such , to act
as judges and arbitrators in the differences which may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels of the nation whose affairs are entrusted to their care. The respective governments shall have no right to interfere in matters of this kind , except the conduct of the captain and crew shall disturb the peace and tranquillity of the country in which

the vessel may be, or that the consul of the place shall feel himself

obliged to resort to the interposition and support of the executive

authority to cause his decision to be respected and maintained. It

Rights reserved to the parties under con.
sular decisions .

being, nevertheless, understood, that this kind of judgment, or award, shall not deprive the contending parties of the right which they shall have, on their return, to recur to the judicial authorities of their own country.

( This article not ratified .)

ARTICLE 6. *
In order to prevent all dispute and uncertainty in respect to what may be considered as being the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the contracting parties respectively, it is agreed, that whatever the chief or intendant of the customs shall have designated and specified as such, in the clearance delivered to the vessels which depart from the European ports of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, shall be acknowledged and admitted as such in the United States ; and that, in the same manner, whatever the chief or collector of the customs in the ports of the United States shall have designated and specified as the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the United States, shall be acknowledged and admitted as such in the territories of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway.
The specification or designation given by the chief of the customs in

TREATY WITH SWEDEN . 1816.

237

lors il ne sera payé ni pour les dits vaisseaux ni pour les cargaisons de droits, impots ou charges quelconques plus forts ou autres que ceux qui seraient payés par des vaisseaux des Etats Unis dans le même cas, avec une addition de dix pour cent sur les dits droits, impots ou charges, et pas davantage.
Afin de prévenir toute incertitude à l'égard des droits, impots ou charges quelconques que devrait payer un vaisseau appartenant aux citoyens ou sujets de l'une des parties contractantes et arrivant dans les ports de l'autre avec une cargaison qui consistérait en partie des produits du sol ou des manufactures du pays, auquel le vaisseau appartiéndrait, et en partie de quelques autres marchandises, dont l'importation est permise au dit vaisseau par les articles précédens, il est convenu qu'en cas d'une cargaison ainsi melée, le dit vaisseau payera toujours les droits, impots ou charges suivant la nature de cette partie de la cargaison qui est sujette aux plus gros droits, tout comme si le vaisseau n'eut apporté que cette seule espèce de marchandises.
ARTICLE CINQUIÈME.
Les hautes parties contractantes s'accordent mutuellement la faculté d'entretenir dans les ports et places de commerce de l'autre, des consuls, vice-consuls ou agents de commerce, qui jouiront de toute la protection et assistance nécessaire pour remplir duêment leurs fonctions, mais il est ici expressement declaré, que dans le cas d'une conduite illégale ou impropre envers les lois ou le gouvernement du pays auquel il est envoyé le dit consul, vice consul ou agent, pourra, ou être puni conformément aux loix, ou être mis hors de fonction ou renvoyé par le gouvernement offensé, celui-ci en donnant les raisons à l'autre, bien entendu cependant que les archives et documens rélatifs aux affaires du consulat, seront à l'abri de toute recherche et devront être soigneusement conservés, étant mis sous le scellé du dit consul et de l'autorité de l'endroit où il aura résidé.
Les consuls ou leurs suppléans auront le droit comme tels de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les différends qui pourraient s'élever entre les capitaines et les équipages des vaisseaux de la nation dont les affaires sont confiées à leurs soins. Les gouvernemens respectifs n'auront le droit de se mêler de ces sortes d'affaires qu'en tant que la conduite des equipages ou du capitaine troublerait l'ordre et la tranquilité dans le pays où le vaisseau se trouve, ou que le consul du lieu se verrait obligé d'appeller l'intervention du pouvoir exécutif pour faire respecter ou maintenir sa décision . Bien entendu que cette espèce de jugement ou d'arbitrage ne saurait pourtant priver les parties contendantes du droit qu'elles ont à leur retour de recourir aux autorités judiciaires de leur patrie.

ARTICLE SIXIÈME.
Afin de prévenir toute dispute ou incertitude à l'égard de ce qui devra être réputé comme étant le produit du sol ou des manufactures des parties contractantes respectivement, il est convenu que ce qui aura été désigné ou spécifié comme tel dans l'expédition que le chef ou l'intendant de la douane aura donnée aux vaisseaux qui sortiront des ports Européens des états de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, sera reconnu et admis comme tel dans les Etats Unis , et que de même ce que le chef ou collecteur de la douane dans les ports des Etats Unis aura designé et specifié comme étant le produit du sol ou des manufactures des États Unis, sera admis et reconnu comme tel dans les Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège. La spécification ou désignation donnée par le chef de la douane dans les colonies de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège et certifiée par le gouverneur

239

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

the colonies of his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, and confirmed by the governor of the colony, shall be considered as sufficient proof of the origin of the articles thus specified or designated to obtain for them admission into the ports of the United States accordingly.

ARTICLE 7.

Vessels and cargoes may enter ports, &c. on paying pilotage, quayage, & c. if those charges have been incurred.
Limitation of this privilege.

The citizens or subjects of one of the contracting parties, arriving with their vessels on any coast belonging to the other, but not willing to enter into port, or being entered into port, and not willing to unload or break bulk, shall have liberty to depart, and to pursue their voyage,
without molestation, and without being obliged to render account of their cargo, or to pay any duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, on the vessels or cargo, excepting only the dues of pilotage, when a pilot shall have been employed , or those of quayage, or light money, whenever these dues are paid in the same circumstances by the citizens or subjects of the country. It being, nevertheless , understood, that whenever the vessels belonging to the citizens or subjects of one of the contracting parties shall be within the jurisdiction of the other, they shall conform to the laws and regulations concerning navigation, and the places and ports into which it may be permitted to enter, which are in force with regard to the citizens or subjects of the country ; and it shall be lawful for the officers of the customs in the district where the said vessels may be, to visit them, to remain on board, and to take such precautions as may be necessary to prevent all illicit commerce while such vessels remain within the said jurisdiction.

ARTICLE 8.

Vessels may
land part of their cargoes, and proceed with the remainder, on

It is also agreed, that the vessels of one of the contracting parties, entering the ports of the other, shall be permitted to discharge a part only of their cargoes, whenever the captain or owner shall desire so to do, and they shall be allowed to depart freely with the remainder, without paying any duties, imposts, or charges whatsoever, except on that

ppoarytiinognatlhdeu-pro- part which shall have been landed, and which shall be marked and

ties, & c.

noted on the list or manifest containing the enumeration of the mer-

chandise which the vessel ought to have on board, and which list ought

always to be presented , without reservation , to the officers of the customs

at the place where the vessel shall have arrived ; and nothing shall be

paid on the part of the cargo which the vessel takes away ; and the

said vessel may proceed therewith to any other port or ports in the same country, into which vessels of the most favoured nations are per-

mitted to enter, and there dispose of the same ; or the said vessel may

Exception as to vessels.

depart therewith to the ports of any other country. It is, however, understood, that the duties, imposts, or charges, which are payable on the vessel itself, ought to be paid at the first port where it breaks bulk and

discharges a part of the cargo, and that no such duties or impositions

shall be again demanded in the ports of the same country where the

said vessel may thereafter enter , except the inhabitants of the country

be subjected to further duties in the same circumstances.

Rights and pri vileges of entrepot.

ARTICLE 9.
The citizens or subjects of one of the contracting parties, shall enjoy in the ports of the other, as well for their vessels as for their merchandise, all the rights and privileges of entrepot, which are enjoyed by the most favoured nations in the same ports.

ARTICLE 10. In case any vessel, belonging to either of the two states or to their

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

239

de la colonie d'ou l'exportation aura été faite, sera regardée comme preuve suffisante de l'origine des articles ainsi désignés ou spécifiés, pour qu'ils soyent admis à ce titre dans les ports des Etats Unis.

ARTICLE SEPTIEME.
Les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des parties contractantes, arrivant avec leurs vaisseaux à l'une des côtes appartenantes à l'autre, mais ne voulant pas entrer dans le port , ou après y être entrés ne voulant pas décharger quelque partie de la cargaison ou déranger quelque chose du chargement, auront la liberté de partir et de poursuivre leur voyage sans être en quelque sorte molestes ou obligés de rendre compte du contenu de la cargaison, et sans payer d'autres droits, impots ou charges quelconques pour les vaisseaux ou la cargaison que les droits de pilotage quand on s'est servi d'un pilote, et ceaux pour le quayage ou pour l'entretien des fanaux là où ces mêmes droits sont pérçus sur les nationaux dans le même cas. Bien entendu cependant que lorsque des vaisseaux
appartenans aux citoyens ou sujets de l'une des parties contractantes se trouveraient dans l'enceinte de la jurisdiction de l'autre, ils se conformeront aux reglemens et ordonnances concernant la navigation et les places ou ports dans lesquels on peut aborder, qui sont en vigueur à l'égard des nations les plus favorisées et il sera permis aux officiers de douane dans les districts desquels les dits vaisseaux se trouvent, de les visiter, de rester à bord et de prendre telles précautions qui peuvent être nécessaires pour prévenir tout commerce illicite pendant que les mêmes vaisseaux restent dans l'enceinte de cette même jurisdiction.
ARTICLE HUITIÊME.
Il est aussi convenu , que les vaisseaux de l'une des parties contractantes, étant entrés dans les ports de l'autre, ils pourront se borner à ne déecharger qu'une partie de leur cargaison selon que le capitaine ou propriétare le désire, et qu'ils pourront s'en aller librement avec le reste de la cargaison sans payer de droits, impots ou charges quelconques que pour la partie qui aura été mise à terre et qui sera marquée et biffée sur la liste ou le manifeste contenant l'énumération des éffets que le vaisseau aura dû apporter laquelle liste devra toujours être présentée en entier à la douane au lieu où le vaisseau aura abordé. Il ne sera rien payé pour la partie de la cargaison que le vaisseau aura emporté et avec laquelle il pourra continuer sa route pour un ou plusieurs autres ports du même pays dans lesquels l'entrée est permise aux vaisseaux des nations les plus favorisées, et y disposer du reste de sa cargaison en payant les droits qui y sont attachés, ou bien il pourra s'en aller avec la cargaison qui lui reste pour les ports de quelque autre pays. Il est cependant entendu que les droits, impôts ou charges quelconques qui sont payables pour le vaisseau même doivent être acquittés dans le premier port où il rompt le chargement et en décharge une partie et qu'aucuns droits ou impositions pareils ne seront demandés de nouveau dans les ports du même pays, où le dit vaisseau pourrait vouloir entrer après à moins que les nationaux ne soyent sujets à quelques droits ultérieurs pour le même cas.
ARTICLE NEUVIÈME .
Les citoyens et sujets de l'une des parties contractantes jouiront dans les ports de l'autre tant pour leur vaisseaux que pour leurs marchandises de tous les droits et facilités d'entrepôt dont jouissent les nations les plus favorisées dans les mêmes ports.
ARTICLE DIXIÈME. Au cas que quelque vaisseau appartenant à l'un des deux Etats ou à

240

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

Regulations in citizens or subjects, shall be stranded, shipwrecked, or have suffered case of ship- any other damage on the coasts under the dominion of either ofthe parwreck .
ties, all aid and assistance shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or
who may be in danger thereof, and passports shall be granted them to return to their own country. The ships and merchandise wrecked, or the proceeds thereof, if the effects be sold, being claimed in a year and a day, by the owners, or their attorney, shall be restored on paying the same costs of salvage, conformably to the laws and usages of the two nations, which the citizens or subjects of the country would pay in the same circumstances. The respective governments shall watch over the companies which are or may be instituted for saving shipwrecked persons and property, that vexations and abuses may not take place.

Quarantine regulations.

ARTICLE 11.
It is agreed that vessels arriving direct from the United States, at a port under the dominion of his Majesty, the King of Sweden and Norway, or from the ports of his said Majesty in Europe at a port of the United States, furnished with a certificate of health from the competent health officer of the port whence they took their departure, certifying that no malignant or contagious disease existed at that port, shall not be subjected to any other quarantine than such as shall be necessary for the visit of the health officer of the port at which they may have arrived ; but shall, after such visit, be permitted immediately to enter and discharge their cargoes : Provided always, that there may not be found any person on board who has been , during the voyage, afflicted with a malignant or contagious disease, and that the country from which the vessel comes may not be so generally regarded at the time as infected, or suspected, that it has been previously necessary to issue a regulation by which all vessels coming from that country are regarded as suspected, and subjected to quarantine.

ARTICLE 12.

The treaty of The treaty of amity and commerce, concluded at Paris, in 1783, by

ePadriins,1c7o8n3c,lud- the plenipotentiaries of the United States and of his Majesty the King ante, page 60, of Sweden, is renewed and put in force by the present treaty, in respect
revived in part. to all which is contained in the second, fifth , sixth, seventh, eighth,

ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth , thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth , sixteenth,

seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-

third, and twenty-fifth, articles of the said treaty, as well as the separate

articles one, two, four, and five, which were signed the same day by

the same plenipotentiaries ; and the articles specified shall be considered

Exception as
to the effect of the revival of
the treaty of 1783, in relation to other powers.

to have as full force and vigour as if they were inserted word for word : Provided, nevertheless, that the stipulations contained in the articles above mentioned shall always be considered as making no change in the conventions previously concluded with other friendly and allied nations.

Stipulations
concerning blockade.

ARTICLE 13.
Considering the distance of the respective countries of the two high contracting parties, and the uncertainty that results therefrom in relation to the various events which may take place, it is agreed that a merchant vessel , belonging to one of the contracting parties, and destined to a port supposed to be blockaded at the time of her departure, shall not, however, be captured or condemned for having a first time attempted to enter the said port, unless it may be proved that the said vessel could and ought to have learned, on her passage, that the place

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

241

leurs citoyens et sujets aura échoué, fait naufrage ou souffert quelque autre dommage sur les côtes de la domination de l'une des deux parties contractantes, il sera donné toute aide et assistance aux personnes naufragés, ou qui se trouvent en danger, et il leur sera accordé des passeports pour assurer leur retour dans leur patrie. Les navires et marchandises naufragés ou leur provenu, si les effêts eussent été vendûs, étant reclamés dans l'an et jour par les propriétaires, ou leurs ayant cause, seront réstitués en payant les mêmes frais du sauvement conformement aux loix et coutumes des deux nations que payéraient les nationaux dans le même cas. Les gouvernemens respectifs veilleront à ce que les compagnies qui sont ou pourront être instituées pour sauver les personnes et effets naufragés, ne se permettent point de vexations ou actes arbitraires.
ARTICLE ONZIÊME.
Il est convenu que les vaisseaux qui arrivent directement des EtatsUnis à un port de la domination de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, ou des pays de sa dite Majesté, en Europe, à un port des Etats-Unis et qui sont pourvûs d'un certificat de santé donné par l'officier compétent à cet égard du port d'où le vaisseau est sorti et assurant qu'aucune maladie maligne ou contagieuse n'éxistait dans ce port, ne seront soumis à aucune autre quarantaine que celle qui sera nécessaire pour la visite de l'officier de santé du port où le vaisseau est arrivé, après laquelle il sera permis au vaisseau d'entrer immédiatement et de decharger sa cargaison, bien entendu toujours qu'il n'y ait eu personne à bord du vaisseau qui s'est trouvé attaqué pendant le voyage d'une maladie maligne ou contagieuse et que la contrée d'où vient le vaisseau ne soit pas à cette époque si généralement regardée comme infectée ou suspecte, qu'on ait été obligé de donner auparavant une ordonnance par laquelle tous les vaisseaux qui viendraient de ce pays seraient regardés comme suspects et soumis à la quarantaine.
ARTICLE DOUZIÊME.
Le Traité d'Amitié et de Commerce, conclû à Paris, en 1783, par les Plénipotentiaires des Etats Unis et de sa Majesté le Roi de Suède, est renouvellé et mis en vigueur par le présent Traité pour tout ce qui est contenu dans les articles deux, cinq, six, sept, huit, neuf, dix, onze, douze, treize, quatorze, quinze, seize, dissept, dixhuit, dixneuf, vingtun, vingt deux, vingt trois et vingt cinq du dit traité, ainsi que les articles séparés un, deux, quatre et cinq, qui furent signés le même jour par les mêmes plénipotentiaires et les articles désignés seront regardés comme ayant force et vigueur tout comme s'ils étaient ici insérés mot à mot. Bien entendu que les stipulations contenues dans les articles précités, seront toujours censées ne rien changer aux conventions précédemment concluês avec d'autres nations amies et alliées.

ARTICLE TREIZIÈME .

Vû l'éloignement des pays respectifs des deux hautes parties contrac-

tantes et l'incertitude qui en résulte sur les divers événémens qui peu-

vent avoir lieu, il est convenu qu'un batiment marchand appartenant à

l'une des parties contractantes et se trouvant destiné pour un port qui

serait supposé bloqué au moment du depart de ce batiment, ne sera ce-

pendant pas capturé ou condamné pour avoir essayé une prémière fois.

d'entrer dans le dit port, à moins qu'il ne puisse être prouvé, que le dit

batiment ait pû et dû apprendre, en route, que l'état de blocus de la

VOL VIII.

31

V

242

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1816.

in question continued to be in a state of blockade. But vessels which,
after having been once turned away, shall attempt a second time, during the same voyage, to enter the same port of the enemy, while the blockade continues, shall be liable to detention and condemnation.

ARTICLE 14.
This treaty to The present treaty, when the same shall have been ratified by the yeenadrusreafftoerretihgeht President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of exchange of the the Senate, and by his Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, shall ratifications. continue in force, and be obligatory on the United States and his Ma-
jesty the King of Sweden and Norway, for the term of eight years from the exchange of the ratifications ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in eight months from the signature of this treaty, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty, and have thereunto set the seal of their arms. Done at Stockholm, the fourth day of September, in the year of Grace, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen.

JONA. RUSSELL, Le Comte d'ENGESTROM, Le Comte A. G. de MORNER,

(L. S.) L. S. L. S.

TREATY WITH SWEDEN . 1816.

243

place en question continuait : mais les batimens qui , après avoir été renvoyés une fois, essayéraient pendant le même voyage d'entrer une seconde fois dans le même port ennemi, durant la continuation du blocus, se trouveront alors sujets à être detenûs et condamnés.

ARTICLE QUATORZIÊME.
Le présent Traité dès qu'il aura été ratifié par le Président des Etats Unis par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat, et par sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, restera en vigueur et sera obligatoire pour les Etats Unis et sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, pendant l'espace de huit ans, à compter de l'échange des ratifications et celles-ci seront échangées dans huit mois après la signature de ce Traité, et plutôt si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent Traité et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes. Fait à Stock-
holm le quatre Septembre, l'an de Grace, mil huit cent seize.

JONA RUSSELL, Le Comte d'ENGESTROM, Le Comte A. G. de MORNER,

(L. 8.) L. S.
(L. 8.)

RENEWED TREATY WITH ALGIERS .

Treaty of Peace and Amity, concluded between the United

States of America and the Dey and Regency of Al-

giers. (a)

Dec. 22 and 23, 1816 .
Ratified Feb. 11, 1822.
Ante, p. 224.

THE President of the United States and the Dey of Algiers, being desirous to restore and maintain , upon a stable and permanent footing, the relations of peace and good understanding between the two powers, and for this purpose to renew the Treaty of Peace and Amity which was concluded between the two States by William Shaler and Commodore Stephen Decatur, as Commissioners Plenipotentiary on the part of the United States, and his Highness Omar Bashaw, Dey of Algiers, on the 30th of June, 1815
The President of the United States having subsequently nominated and appointed, by Commission, the above-named William Shaler, and Isaac Chauncey, Commodore and Commander in Chief of all the Naval Forces ofthe United States in the Mediterranean , Commissioners Pleni-

Peace and friendship.

potentiary to treat with his Highness the Dey of Algiers, for the renewal of the Treaty aforesaid ; and they have concluded, settled, and signed, the following Articles :
ART. 1. There shall be, from the conclusion of this Treaty, a firm, perpetual , inviolable , and universal, peace and friendship between the President and Citizens of the United States of America, on the one part, and

the Dey and subjects of the Regency of Algiers, in Barbary, on the other,

made by the free consent of both parties, and on the terms of the most

Favors in na- favored nations : And if either party shall hereafter grant to any other vigation and nation any particular favor or privilege in navigation or commerce, it

ccoommmmeorncetoto be shall immediately become common to the other party ; freely, when

each, & c.

freely it is granted to such other nations ; but when the grant is condi-

tional, it shall be at the option of the contracting parties to accept, alter,

or reject, such conditions, in such manner as shall be most conducive

to their respective interests.

Abolition of tribute in any form.

ART. 2. It is distinctly understood between the contracting parties, that no tribute, either as biennial presents, or under any other form or name whatever, shall be required by the Dey and Regency of Algiers from the United States of America, on any pretext whatever.

See Articles 3 and 4, of the Treaty of 30th June, 1815,
ante, page 224.
Enemies' pro-
perty to pass free in vessels of each party.

ART. 3. [Relates to the mutual restitution of prisoners and subjects, and has been duly executed. ]
ART. 4. [Relates to the delivery, into the hands of the Consul General , of a quantity of Bales of Cotton, & c. and has been duly executed.]
ART. 5. If any goods belonging to any nation with which either of the parties are at war, should be loaded on board vessels belonging to the other party, they shall pass free and unmolested, and no attempt shall be made to take or detain them.

Citizens or
subjects taken on board an enemy's vessel to be liberated.

ART. 6. If any citizens or subjects, belonging to either party, shall be found on board a prize vessel taken from an enemy by the other party, such citizens or subjects shall be liberated immediately, and in no case, or on any pretence whatever , shall any American citizen be kept in

captivity or confinement, or the property of any American citizen found on board of any vessel belonging to any nation with which Algiers

(a) See notes of the treaties with Algiers, ante , page 133. (244)

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1816.

245

may be at war, be detained from its lawful owners after the exhibi-
tion of sufficient proofs of American citizenship and American property, by the Consul of the United States residing at Algiers.
ART. 7. Proper passports shall immediately be given to the vessels Passports to of both the contracting parties, on condition that the vessels of war belong- vessels of each ing to the Regency of Algiers, on meeting with merchant vessels be- poafrvtiysi,tarned- right longing to the citizens of the United States of America, shall not be stricted. permitted to visit them with more than two persons besides the rowers ; these only shall be permitted to go on board without first obtaining leave from the commander of said vessel, who shall compare the pass-
ports, and immediately permit said vessel to proceed on her voyage ; and should any of the subjects of Algiers insult or molest the commander, Offenders tobe or any other person on board a vessel so visited, or plunder any of the paubnuissinhgedthfeor property contained in her, on complaint being made to the Consul of right of visit. the United States residing in Algiers, and on his producing sufficient proofs to substantiate the fact, the commander or rais of said Algerine ship or vessel of war , as well as the offenders, shall be punished in the most exemplary manner.
All vessels of war belonging to the United States of America, on meet- Vessels ofwar ing a cruiser belonging to the Regency of Algiers, on having seen her ofefrUA.lgSe.rtionesufpassports and certificates from the Consul of the United States residing cruisers to pass, in Algiers, shall permit her to proceed on her cruise unmolested, and & c. without detention. No passport shall be granted by either party to any vessels, but such as are absolutely the property of citizens or subjects of the said contracting parties, on any pretence whatever.

ART. 8. A citizen or subject of either of the contracting parties
having bought a prize vessel condemned by the other party, or by any other nation, the certificates of condemnation and bill of sale shall be a
sufficient passport for such vessel for six months ; which, considering the distance between the two countries, is no more than a reasonable time for her to procure passports.

What shall be
sufficient passport.

ART. 9. Vessels of either of the contracting parties putting into the Provisions to ports ofthe other, and having need of provisions or other supplies, shall be furnished to be furnished at the market price ; and if any such vessel should so put in vkeestseprliscaet. marfrom a disaster at sea, and have occasion to repair, she shall be at liberty to land and re-embark her cargo, without paying any customs or duties whatever ; but in no case shall be compelled to land her cargo.

ART. 10. Should a vessel of either of the contracting parties be cast Assistance to

on shore within the territories of the other, all proper assistance shall be given to the

be given to her and her crew ; no pillage shall be allowed ; the property

crew, and protection to the

shall remain at the disposal ofthe owners ; and, if reshipped on board of property ofves-

any vessel for exportation, no customs or duties whatever shall be required sels cast ashore.

to be paid thereon, and the crew shall be protected and succored until

they can be sent to their own country.

ART. 11. If a vessel of either of the contracting parties shall be attacked by an enemy within cannon-shot of the forts of the other, she shall be protected as much as is possible. If she be in port, she shall not be seized or attacked, when it is in the power of the other party to protect her ; and when she proceeds to sea, no enemy shall be permitted to pursue her from the same port within twenty-four hours after her departure.

How vessels emda.y be protect-

ART. 12. The commerce between the United States of America and Commerce,
the Regency of Algiers, the protections to be given to merchants, & c. on the footing of the most
masters of vessels, and seamen, the reciprocal rights of establishing favored nations
Consuls in each country, the privileges, immunities, and jurisdictions, v2

246

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1816.

to be enjoyed by such Consuls, are declared to be on the same footing, in every respect, with the most favored nations, respectively.

Consul of U.S. ART. 13. The Consul of the United States of America shall not be

nfoortdreebstpsonosfible responsible for the debts contracted by the citizens of his own country, citizens, & c. unless he gives previously written obligations so to do.

Salutes to vessels of war of U.S.

ART. 14. On a vessel or vessels of war belonging to the United States anchoring before the city of Algiers, the Consul is to inform the Dey of her arrival, when she shall receive the salutes which are, by treaty or custom, given to the ships of war of the most favored nations on

similar occasions, and which shall be returned gun for gun ; and if, after

such arrival, so announced, any Christians whatever, captives in Al-

giers, make their escape and take refuge on board any of the said ships of war, they shall not be required back again , nor shall the Consul of the

United States or commander of the said ship be required to pay any

thing for the said Christians.

Pretexts arising from religious opinions, not to interrupt harmony, & c.
Consuls may travel within the territories of each party, & c.

ART. 15. As the government of the United States has, in itself, no character of enmity against the laws, religion , or tranquillity, of any nation , and as the said States have never entered into any voluntary war, or act of hostility, except in defence of their just rights on the high seas, it is declared, by the contracting parties, that no pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony between the two nations ; and the Consuls and Agents of both nations shall have liberty to celebrate the rites of their respective religions in their own houses.
The Consuls, respectively, shall have liberty and personal security given them to travel within the territories of each other by land and sea, and shall not be prevented from going on board any vessel they may think proper to visit ; they shall likewise have the liberty to appoint their own drogoman and broker.

How disputes may be settled, &c.

ART. 16. In case of any dispute arising from the violation of any of the articles of this treaty, no appeal shall be made to arms, nor shall war be declared on any pretext whatever ; but if the Consul residing at the place where the dispute shall happen , shall not be able to settle the same, the government of that country shall state their grievance in writing, and transmit the same to the government of the other, and the period of three months shall be allowed for answers to be returned, during which time no act of hostility shall be permitted by either party ; and in case the grievances are not redressed, and a war should be the event, the Consuls, and citizens, and subjects, of both parties, respectively, shall be permitted to embark with their effects unmolested, on board of what vessel or vessels they shall think proper, reasonable time being allowed for that purpose.

Prisoners of war not to be made slaves ; but to be ex
changed, & c. within 12 months.

ART. 17. If, in the course of events, a war should break out between the two nations, the prisoners captured by either party shall not be made slaves ; they shall not be forced to hard labor, or other confinement than such as may be necessary to secure their safe keeping, and shall be exchanged rank for rank ; and it is agreed that prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months after their capture ; and the exchange

may be effected by any private individual legally authorized by either of the parties.

Powers at war with U. S. not to be suffered to sell American
captured ves-

ART. 18. If any of the Barbary Powers, or other States at war with the United States, shall capture any American vessel and send her into any port of the Regency of Algiers, they shall not be permitted to sell her , but shall be forced to depart the port on procuring the requisite

sels at Algiers. supplies of provisions ; but the vessels of war of the United States, with

any prizes they may capture from their enemies, shall have liberty to

frequent the ports of Algiers for refreshment of any kind , and to sell

TREATY WITH ALGIERS. 1816.

247

such prizes in the said ports, without paying any other customs or duties than such as are customary on ordinary commercial importations.

ART. 19. If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their protection, shall have any disputes with each other, the Consul shall decide between the parties ; and whenever the Consul shall require any aid or assistance from the government of Algiers to enforce his decision, it shall be immediately granted to him ; and if any disputes

Consul of U.S.
to decide disputes between American citi.
zens, & c.

shall arise between any citizens of the United States and the citizens

or subjects of any other nations having a Consul or Agent in Algiers,

such disputes shall be settled by the Consuls or Agents ofthe respective

nations ; and any disputes or suits of law that may take place between

any citizens of the United States and the subjects of the Regency of

Algiers, shall be decided by the Dey in person, and no other.

ART. 20. If a citizen of the United States should kill, wound, or In case of kill.

strike, a subject of Algiers,

or,

on the

contrary,

a subject

of Algiers

ing, wounding, or striking, the

should kill, wound , or strike, a citizen of the United States, the law law of the'

of the country shall take place, and equal justice shall be rendered, the country to pre-

Consul assisting at the trial ; but the sentence of punishment against an vail, & c.

American citizen shall not be greater or more severe than it would be

against a Turk in the same predicament ; and if any delinquent should

make his escape, the Consul shall not be responsible for him in any

manner whatever.

Consul of U.S.

ART. 21.

The Consul

of the United States of America

shall

not

be

not to pay duties on what he

required to pay any customs or duties whatever on any thing he imports imports for his house and

from a foreign country for the use of his house and family.

family.

ART. 22. Should any of the citizens of the United States of America die, within the Regency of Algiers, the Dey and his subjects shall not interfere with the property of the deceased, but it shall be under the immediate direction of the Consul, unless otherwise disposed of by will. Should there be no Consul, the effects shall be deposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party shall appear who has a right to demand them, when they shall render an account of the property; neither shall the Dey or his subjects give hindrance in the execution of any will that may appear.

Citizens of
Uwi.thSi.ndtyhienRgegency of Algiers, their propdeerrttyhteodbireecu-n. tion of the consul, unless, & c.

ARTICLE ADDITIONAL AND EXPLANATORY.

The United States of America, in order to give to the Dey of Algiers a proof of their desire to maintain the relations of peace and amity between the two powers upon a footing the most liberal, and in order to withdraw any obstacle which might embarrass him in his relations with other states, agree to annul so much of the eighteenth Article of the foregoing Treaty, as gives to the United States any advantage in the ports of Algiers over the most favored nations having Treaties with the Regency.

Part of the
t1h3ethfoArretgicoliengof Treaty annulled.

Done at the Palace of the Government, in Algiers, on the 22d day of December, 1816, which corresponds to the third of the Moon Safar, year of the Hegira 1232.

Whereas the undersigned William Shaler, a citizen of the State of New-York, and Isaac Chauncey, Commander in Chief of the Naval Forces of the United States, stationed in the Mediterranean, being duly appointed Commissioners, by Letters Patent under the signature of the President and Seal of the United States of America, bearing date at the
City of Washington , the twenty-fourth day of August, A. D. 1816 , for negociating and concluding the renewal of a Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and the Dey and Subjects of the Regency

248

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1818.

of Algiers, we, therefore, William Shaler and Isaac Chauncey, Commis sioners as aforesaid, do conclude the foregoing Treaty, and every Article and Clause therein contained, reserving the same, nevertheless, for the final ratification of the President of the United States of Ame-
rica, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate of the United States.

Done in the Chancery of the Consulate General of the United States, in the City of Algiers, on the 23d day of December, in the year 1816, and of the Independence of the United States the forty-first.

WM. SHALER . I. CHAUNCEY.
The signature of the Dey is stamped at the beginning and end of the Treaty. }

(L. S. L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. (a)

Oct. 20, 1818.
Full powers exchanged.

The United States of America, and his Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, desirous to cement the good understanding which happily subsists between them, have, for that purpose, named their respective Plenipotentiaries, that is to say: The President of the United States, on his part, has appointed Albert Gallatin, their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the court of France ; and Richard Rush, their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the court of his Britannic Majesty: And his Majesty has appointed the right honourable Frederick John
Robinson, Treasurer of his Majesty's Navy, and President of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade and Plantations ; and Henry Goulburn , Esq., one of his Majesty's Under Secretaries of State: Who, after having exchanged their respective full powers, found to be in due and proper form, have agreed to and concluded the following articles :

ARTICLE 1.

Definition of the extent of the common
right of fishing,
& c . on the coast of the British dominions in America.

WHEREAS differences have arisen respecting the liberty claimed by the United States, for the inhabitants thereof, to take, dry, and cure, fish, on certain coasts, bays, harbours, and creeks, of his Britannic
Majesty's dominions in America, it is agreed between the high contracting parties, that the inhabitants of the said United States shall have, forever, in common with the subjects of his Britannic Majesty, the

liberty to take fish of every kind on that part of the southern coast of

Newfoundland , which extends from Cape Ray to the Rameau Islands,

on the western and northern coast of Newfoundland , from the said Cape

Rayto the Quirpon Islands, on the shores of the Magdalen Islands, and

also on the coasts, bays, harbours, and creeks, from Mount Joly, on the

southern coast of Labrador, to and through the Streights of Belleisle,

Exception asto and thence northwardly indefinitely along the coast, without prejudice,

the Hudson Bay however, to any of the exclusive rights of the Hudson Bay Company :

Company.

And that the American fishermen shall also have liberty, forever, to dry

and cure fish in any of the unsettled bays, harbours, and creeks , of the southern part of the coast of Newfoundland, hereabove described, and

(a) See notes ofthe treaties and conventions between the United States and Great Britain, ante , page 54.

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1818 .

249

of the coast of Labrador ; but so soon as the same, or any portion

thereof, shall be settled, it shall not be lawful for the said fishermen to dry or cure fish at such portion so settled , without previous agreement for such purpose, with the inhabitants, proprietors, or possessors, of the ground. And the United States hereby renounce, forever, any liberty heretofore enjoyed or claimed by the inhabitants thereof, to take, dry, or cure fish, on or within three marine miles of any of the coasts, bays, creeks, or harbours, of his Britannic Majesty's dominions in America, not included within the abovementioned limits : Provided , however, that the American fishermen shall be admitted to enter such bays or har-

Renunciation bStyatthees Uansittoed other fisheries, except, &c.

bours, for the purpose of shelter and of repairing damages therein, of purchasing wood, and of obtaining water, and for no other purpose whatever. But they shall be under such restrictions as may be necessary to prevent their taking, drying, or curing, fish therein , or in any

other manner whatever abusing the privileges hereby reserved to them.

ARTICLE 2.

It is agreed, that a line drawn from the most northwestern point of the Lake of the Woods, along the forty-ninth parallel of north latitude, or if the said point shall not be in the forty-ninth parallel of north latitude, then that a line drawn from the said point due north or south, as the case may be, until the said line shall intersect the said parallel of north latitude, and from the point of such intersection due west along and with the said parallel, shall be the line of demarkation between the territories of the United States and those of his Britannic Majesty, and that the said line shall form the northern boundary of the said territories of the United States, and the southern boundary of the territories of his Britannic Majesty, from the Lake of the Woods to the Stony Moun . tains.
ARTICLE 3.

Definition of
boundary of the U. S. from the Lake of the WStooondysMtooutnh-e tains.

It is agreed, that any country that may be claimed by either party on Country claim-

the northwest

coast of America,

westward

of the

Stony

Mountains,

ed by either party westward

shall, together with its harbours, bays, and creeks, and the navigation of the Stony

of all rivers within the same, be free and open, for the term of ten years Mountains, to

from the date of the signature of the present convention, to the vessels, bpaerftireese, tuontbiolth citizens, and subjects, of the two powers : it being well understood, Oct. 20, 1828. that this agreement is not to be construed to the prejudice of any claim which either of the two high contracting parties may have to any part

of the said country, nor shall it be taken to affect the claims of any

other power or state to any part of the said country ; the only object of

the high contracting parties, in that respect, being to prevent disputes

and differences amongst themselves.

ARTICLE 4.

All the provisions of the convention " to regulate the commerce between the territories of the United States and of his Britannic
Majesty," concluded at London , on the third day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen , with the exception of the clause which limited its duration to four years, and excepting,

Convention of
London, of 3d July 1815, continued for ten years. Ante, p. 228.

also, so far as the same was affected by the declaration of his Majesty respecting the Island of St. Helena, are hereby extended and continued in force for the term of ten years from the date of the signature of the present convention , in the same manner as if all the provisions of the said convention were herein specially recited.

ARTICLE 5.

Whereas it was agreed by the first article of the treaty of Ghent, Reference to
that " All territory, places, and possessions, whatsoever, taken by either t1rsteatarytoicfleGhoefnt, party from the other, during the war, or which may be taken after the
VOL. VIII. 32

250

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1818.

signing ofthis treaty, excepting only the islands hereinafter mentioned, shall be restored without delay, and without causing any destruction , or

carrying away any of the artillery or other public property originally captured in the said forts or places, which shall remain therein upon

Ante, p. 218. Claim for slaves underthe 1st article ofthe
treaty of Ghent.

the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, or any slaves, or other private property ;" and whereas, under the aforesaid article, the United States claim for their citizens, and as their private property, the restitution of, or full compensation for, all slaves who, at the date of the ex-
change of the ratifications of the said treaty, were in any territory, places, or possessions, whatsoever, directed by the said treaty to be

restored to the United States, but then still occupied by the British forces, whether such slaves were, at the date aforesaid, on shore, or on

Differences

board any British vessel, lying in waters within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States ; and whereas differences have arisen whether,

tghreowcilanigmofuotrof slaves, to be
referred tosome friendly sovereign or state.

by the true intent and meaning of the aforesaid article of the treaty of Ghent, the United States are entitled to the restitution of, or full compensation for, all or any slaves, as above described, the high contracting parties hereby agree to refer the said differences to some friendly sovereign or state, to be named for that purpose ; and the high contracting

parties further engage to consider the decision of such friendly sove-

reign or state to be final and conclusive on all the matters referred.

This conven-
tion obligatory on exchange of ratifications.

ARTICLE 6.
This convention, when the same shall have been duly ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, and by his Britannic Majesty, and the respective ratifications mutually exchanged , shall be binding and obligatory on the said United States, and on his majesty ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in six months from this date, or sooner, if possible.

In witness whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have thereunto affixed the seal of their arms. Done at
London, this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.

ALBERT GALLATIN, RICHARD RUSH , FREDERICK JOHN ROBINSON, HENRY GOULBURN.

(L. S.) (L. S.) (L. s.) (L. S.)

DECISION

Of the Commissioners under the fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent.

Decision ofthe By Thomas Barclay and John Holmes , esquires, commissioners, ap-

cunodmemristshieon4ethrs article of the
treaty of Ghent. New York, Nov. 24, 1814. Ante, p. 219.

pointed by virtue of the fourth article of the treaty of peace and amity between his Britannic majesty and the United States of America, concluded at Ghent, on the twenty-fourth day of December, one thousand
eight hundred and fourteen , to decide to which of the two contracting parties to the said treaty, the several islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy, which is part of the Bay of Fundy, and the island of Grand

Ante, page 81.

Menan, in the said Bay of Fundy, do respectively belong, in conformity with the true intent of the second article of the treaty of peace of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, between his said Britannic majesty and the aforesaid United States of America.

We, the said Thomas Barclay and John Holmes, commissioners as

aforesaid, having been duly sworn impartially to examine and decide

upon the said claims, according to such evidence as should be laid

DECISION UNDER TREATY OF GHENT. 1817.

251

before us on the part of his Britannic majesty and the United States, respectively, have decided, and do decide, that Moose Island , Dudley Moose Island, Island, and Frederick Island, in the Bay of Passamaquoddy, which is United States. part of the Bay of Fundy, do, and each of them does, belong to the
United States of America ; and we have also decided, and do decide, that all the other islands , and each and every of them, in the said Bay Other islands of Passamaquoddy, which is part of the Bay of Fundy, and the Island bBeriltoanign.to Great of Grand Menan, in the said Bay of Fundy, do belong to his said Britannic majesty, in conformity with the true intent of the said second
article of said treaty of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three.

In faith and testimony whereof, we have set our hands and affixed our seals, at the city of New York, in the state of New York, in the United States of America, this twenty-fourth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.

Witness,

JOHN HOLMES, THOMAS BARCLAY.

JAMES T. AUSTIN, Agent U. S. A. ANTHONY BARCLAY, Secretary.

(L. 8.) (L. S.

DECLARATION
Of the Commissioners under the fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent.
NEW YORK, 24th NOVEMBER, 1817. SIR,
THE undersigned commissioners, appointed by virtue of the fourth Declaration of the commission.
article of the treaty of Ghent, have attended to the duties assigned ers accompany. them ; and have decided that Moose Island , Dudley Island, and Frederick ing their deciIsland , in the Bay of Passamaquoddy, which is part of the Bay of Fundy, sion. do each of them belong to the United States of America, and that all Ante, p. 219. the other islands in the Bay of Passamaquoddy, and the Island of Grand Menan, in the Bay of Fundy, do each of them belong to his Britannic majesty, in conformity with the true intent of the second article of the treaty of peace of one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three. The Ante, p. 81 . commissioners have the honor to enclose herewith their decision.
In making this decision , it became necessary that each of the com- Each of the missioners should yield a part of his individual opinion : several reasons choamsmyiiseslidoendersa induced them to adopt this measure ; one of which was the impression part of his indi. and belief that the navigable waters of the Bay of Passamaquoddy, vidual opinion, which, by the treaty of Ghent, is said to be part of the Bay of Fundy, &c. are common to both parties for the purpose of all lawful and direct communication with their own territories and foreign ports.
The undersigned have the honor to be, With perfect respect, Sir, Your obedient and humble servants,
J. HOLMES , THO : BARCLAY.
The Hon. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretary of State.

TREATY OF AMITY, SETTLEMENT, AND LIMITS,

Feb. 22, 1819.

Oct. 29, 1820. Between the United States of America and his Catholic

Ratified by the United States,
Feb. 19, 1821 . Ratified bythe
King of Spain, Oct. 24, 1820.
Mutual desire to consolidate friendship, &c.

Majesty. (a)
THE United States of America and his Catholic Majesty, desiring to consolidate, on a permanent basis, the friendship and good correspondence which happily prevails between the two parties, have determined to settle and terminate all their differences and pretensions, by a Treaty, which shall designate, with precision, the limits of their respective bordering territories in North America.

(a) See notes of the treaties with Spain, ante, page 138. An act for carrying into execution the treaty between the United States and Spain, concluded at Washington on the twenty-second day of February, 1819. March 3, 1821 , vol . 3, p. 637. The decisions of the Supreme Court, in cases arising under this treaty, have been : Bythe treaty of St. Ildefonso, made on the first of October, 1800, Spain ceded Louisiana to France ; and France, by the treaty of Paris, signed the 30th of April, 1803, ceded it to the United States. Under this treaty, the United States claimed the countries between the Iberville and the Perdido. Spain contended that her cession to France comprehended only that territory, which, at the time of the cession, was denominated Louisiana, consisting of the island of New Orleans, and the country which had been
originally ceded to her by France, west of the Mississippi. The land claimed by the plaintiffs in error, under a grant from the crown of Spain , made after the treaty of St. Ildefonso , lies within the disputed territory ; and this case presents the question, to whom did the country between the Iberville and Perdido belong after the treaty of St. Ildefonso ? Had France and Spain agreed upon the boundaries ofthe retroceded territory, before Louisiana was acquired by the United States, that agreement would undoubtedly have ascertained its limits. But the declarations of France, made after parting with the province, cannot be admitted as conclusive. In questions of this character, political considerations have too much influence over the conduct of nations, to permit their declarations to decide the course of an independent government, in a matter vitally interesting to itself. Foster et al. v. Neilson , 2 Peters, 306.
If a Spanish grantee had obtained possession of the land in dispute, so as to be the defendant, would a court of the United States maintain his title under a Spanish grant, made subsequent to the acquisition of Louisiana, singly on the principle that the Spanish construction of the treaty of St. Ildefonso was right, and the American construction wrong ? Such a decision would subvert those principles which govern the relations between the legislative and judicial departments, and mark the limits of each. 1bid. 309.
The sound construction of the 8th article of the treaty between the United States and Spain, of the 22d of February, 1829, will not enable the court to apply its provisions to the case of the plaintiff. Ibid. 314.
The article does not declare that all the grants made by his Catholic majesty, before the 24th of January, 1818, shall be valid to the same extent as if the ceded territories had remained under his dominion. It does not say that those grants are hereby confirmed . Had such been its language, it would have acted directly on the subject, and it would have repealed those acts of congress which were repugnant to it; but its language is that those grants shall be ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession, & c. By whom shall they be ratified and confirmed ? This seems to be the language of contract ; and ifit is, the ratification and confirmation which are promised, must be the act of the legislature. Until such act shall be passed, the court is not at liberty to disregard the existing laws on the subject. Ibid.
By the treaty by which Louisiana was acquired, the United States stipulated that the inhabitants of the ceded territories should be protected in the free enjoyment of their property. The United States, as a just nation , regard this stipulation as the avowal of a principle which would have been held equally s5acred , although it had not been inserted in the treaty. Soulard et al. v. The Uuited States, 4 Peters, 11.
The term property , as applied to lands, comprehends every species of title , inchoate or complete. It is supposed to embrace those rights which lie in contract ; those which are executory, as well as those which are executed. In this respect, the relation of the inhabitants of Louisiana to their government, is not changed. The new government takes the place of that which has passed away. Ibid.
The stipulations of the treaty ceding Louisiana to the United States, affording that protection or security to claims under the French or Spanish government to which the act of congress refers, are in the first, second and third articles. They extended to all property , until Louisiana became a member of the Union ; into which the inhabitants were to be incorporated as soon as possible, " and admitted to all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States." The perfect inviolability and secu-
tity of property is among these rights. Delassus v. The United States, 9 Peters , 117. The right of property is protected and secured by the treaty, and no principle is better settled in this
country, than that an inchoate title to lands is property. This right would have been sacred, independen of the treaty. The sovereign who acquires an inhabited country, acquires full dominion over it;
(252)

TRATADO DE AMISTAD, ARREGLO DE DIFERENCIAS Y LIMITES ,
Entre S. M. Ca. y los Estados Unidos de America.

DESEANDO S. M. Catolica y los Estados Unidos de America consolidar, de un modo permanente, la buena correspondencia y amistad que felizmente reyna entre ambas partes, han resuelto transigir y terminar todas sus diferencias y pretensiones por medio de un Tratado, que fixe, con precision, los limites de sus respectivos y confinantes territorios en la America Septentrional.

but this dominion is never supposed to divest the vested rights of individuals to property. The language of the treaty ceding Louisiana, excludes any idea of interfering with private property. Ibid.
After the acquisition of Florida by the United States, in virtue of the treaty with Spain, of 22d of February, 1819, various acts of congress were passed for the adjustment of private land claims, within the ceded territory. The tribunals authorized to decide on them, were not authorized to settle any which

exceeded a league square ; on those exceeding that quantity, they were directed to report, especially, their opinion, for the future action of congress. The lands embraced in the larger claims were defined by surveys, and plats retained ; these were reserved from sale, and remained unsettled until some resolution should be adopted for a final adjudication of them, which was done by the passage of the law of the 22d May, 1828. By the sixth section, it was provided, " that all claims to land within the territory of Florida, embraced by the treaty, which shall not be finally decided and settled under the provisions ofthe same law, containing a greater quantity of land than the commissioners were authorized to decide, and above the amount confirmed by the act, and which have not been reported as antedated, or forged, shall be received and adjudicated by the judges of the superior court of the district in which the land lies, upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules and regulations, conditions, restrictions and regulations prescribed to the district judge, and to the claimants, by the act of 26th May, 1824." By a proviso, all claims annulled by the treaty, and all claims not presented to the commission. ers, &c., according to the acts of congress, were excluded . United States v. Arredondo et al. 6 Peters, 706.

The validity of concessions of land, by the authorities of Spain, in East Florida, is expressly recognised in the Florida treaty, and in the several acts of congress. Ibid.
The eighth article allows the owners of land the same time for fulfilling the conditions of their grants from the date of the treaty , as is allowed in the grant from the date of the instrument. And the act of the 8th of May, 1822, requires every person claiming title to lands under any patent, grant, concession , or order of survey dated previous to the 24th of January , 1818, to file his claim before the commissioners appointed in pursuance of that act. All the subsequent acts on the subject observe the same language ; and the titles under these concessions have been uniformly confirmed, when the tract did not exceed a league square. Ibid.

A claim to lands in East Florida, the title to which was derived from grants by the Creek and Seminole Indians, ratified by the local authorities of Spain, before the cession of Florida by Spain to the United States was confirmed. It was objected to the title claimed in this case, which had been presented to the superior court of Middle Florida, under the provisions of the acts of Congress for the settlement of land claims in Florida, that the grantees did not acquire, under the Indian grants, a legal title to the land, Held, that the acts of congress submit these claims to the adjudication of this court as a court of equity ; and those acts, as often and uniformly construed in its repeated decisions, confer the same jurisdiction over imperfect, inchoate, and inceptive titles, as legal and perfect ones, and require the court to decide by the same rules on all claims submitted to it, whether legal or equitable. Mitchell et al. v. The United States, 9 Peters, 711.

Under the Florida treaty, grants of land made before the 24th January, 1818, by his Catholic Majesty,

or by his lawful authorities, stand ratified and confirmed to the same extent that the same grants would

be valid, if Florida had remained under the dominion of Spain ; and the owners of conditional grants,

who have been prevented from fulfilling all the conditions of their grants, have time by the treaty extended

to them to complete such conditions. That time, as was declared by the supreme court in Arredondo's

case, 6 Peters, 478, began to run in regard to individual rights from the ratification of the treaty ; and

the treaty declares, if the conditions are not complied with, within the terms limited in the grant, that

the grants shall be null and void. United States v. Kingsley, 12 Peters, 476.

The treaty with Spain , by which Florida was ceded to the United States, is the law of the land, and

admits the inhabitants of Florida to the enjoyment of the privileges, rights, and immunities of the citizens

of the United States. They do not, however, participate in political power ; they do not share in the

government, until Florida shall become a state. In the mean time, Florida continues to be a territory

of the United States, governed by virtue of that clause in the constitution, which empowers " congress

to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory, or other property , belonging to the

United States." American Ins. Co. v. Three Hundred and Fifty-six Bales of Cotton, 1 Peters, 542.

W

(253)

254

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

John Quincy Adams and Luis De Onis, negotiators.
Full powers exchanged .

With this intention , the President of the United States has furnished with their full powers JOHN QUINCY ADAMS , Secretary of State of the said United States ; and his Catholic Majesty has appointed the most excellent Lord Don LUIS DE ONIS , Gonzales, Lopez y Vara, Lord of the town of Rayaces, perpetual Regidor of the Corporation of the City of Salamanca, Knight Grand-Cross of the Royal American Order of Isabella the Catholic , decorated with the Lys of La Vendee, Knight Pensioner of the Royal and distinguished Spanish Order of Charles the Third, Member of the Supreme Assembly of the said Royal Order, of the Council of his Catholic Majesty ; his Secretary, with Exercise of Decrees, and his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near the United States of America.
And the said Plenipotentiaries, after having exchanged their powers, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :
ARTICLE 1.

Firm and inviolable peace
and friendship.

There shall be a firm and inviolable peace and sincere friendship between the United States and their citizens, and his Catholic Majesty, his successors and subjects, without exception of persons or places.

ARTICLE 2.

His Catholic Majesty cedes the Floridas.
What things are included in the cession.

His Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States, in full property and sovereignty, all the territories which belong to him, situated to the eastward of the Mississippi, known by the name of East and West Florida. The adjacent islands dependent on said provinces, all public lots and squares, vacant lands, public edifices, fortifications, barracks, and other
buildings, which are not private property, archives and documents, which relate directly to the property and sovereignty of said provinces, are included in this article. The said archives and documents shall be left
in possession of the commissaries or officers of the United States, duly authorized to receive them.

ARTICLE 3.

The boundary line between the two countries, west of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulph of Mexico, at the mouth of the river Sabine,

The object of the treaty with Spain, which ceded Florida to the United States, dated 22d May, 1819, was to invest the commissioners with full power and authority to receive, examine, and decide upon the amount and validity of asserted claims upon Spain , for damages and injuries. Their decision , within the scope of this authority, is conclusive and final, and is not re-examinable. The parties must abide by it, as the decree of a competent tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction. A rejected claim cannot be brought again under review, in any judicial tribunal. But it does not naturally follow that this authority extends to adjust all conflicting rights of different citizens to the fund so awarded. The commissioners are to look to the original claim for damages and injuries against Spain itself; and it is wholly immaterial who is the legal or equitable owner of the claim , provided he is an American citizen. Comegys et al. v. Vasse, 1 Peters, 212.
After the validity and amount of the claim has been ascertained by the award of the commissioners, the rights of the claimant to the fund, which has passed into his hands and those of others, are left to the ordinary course of judicial proceedings in the established courts of justice . Ibid.
The treaty with Spain recognised an existing right in the aggrieved parties to compensation ; and did not, in the most remote degree, turn upon the notion of donation or gratuity. It was demanded by our government as matter of right, and as such was granted by Spain. Ibid. 217.
The right to compensation from Spain, held under abandonment made to underwriters, and accepted by them, for damages and injuries, which were to be satisfied under the treaty, by the United States ; passed to the assignees of the bankrupt, who held such rights by the provisions of the bankrupt law of the United States, passed April 4, 1800. Ibid.
The king of Spain was the grantor in the Florida treaty ; the treaty was his deed ; the exception was made by him ; and its nature and effect depended on his intention , expressed by his words, in reference to the thing granted , and the thing reserved and excepted in the grant. The Spanish version was in his words, and expressed his intention ; and although the American version showed the intention to be different, the supreme court cannot adopt it as a rule to decide what was granted, what excepted, and what reserved. United States v. Arredondo et al. , 6 Peters, 741 .
Even in cases ofconquest, it is very unusual for the conqueror to do more than to displace the sovereign and assume dominion over the country. The modern usage of nations, which has become law, would
be violated ; that sense of justice and of right, which is acknowledged and felt by the whole civilized world, would be outraged ; if private property should be generally confiscated , and private rights annulled , on a change in the sovereignty of the country by the Florida treaty. The people change their allegiance, their relation to their ancient sovereign is dissolved ; but their relations to each other, and their rights of

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

255

Con esta mira, han nombrado, Su. M. Ca. al Exmo. Sor. Dn. LUIS DE ONIS, Gonzales, Lopez y Vara, Señor de la Villa de Rayaces, Regidor perpetuo del Ayuntamiento de la Ciudad de Salamanca, Caballero Gran Cruz de la real Orden Americana de Isabel la Católica, y de la Decoracion del Lis de la Vendea, Caballero Pensionista de la Real y distinguida Orden Española de Carlos III, Ministro Vocal de la Suprema Asamblea de dicha RI. Orden , de su Consejo, su Secretario con exercicio de Decretos, y su Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario cerca de los Estados Unidos de America : Y el Presidente de los
Estados Unidos, á D. JUAN QUINCY ADAMS, Secretario de Estado de los mismos Estados Unidos.

Y ambos Plenipotenciarios, despues de haver cangeado sus Poderes,
han ajustado y firmado los articulos siguientes :
ART. 1.
Habrá una paz solida e inviolable y una amistad sincera entre S. M. Ca sus sucesores y subditos, y los Estados Unidos y sus ciudadanos , sin excepcion de personas ni lugares.
ART. 2.
S. M. Ca cede á los Estados Unidos, en toda propiedad y soberania,
todos los territorios que le pertenecen, situados al Este del Misisipi, cono-
cidos bajo el nombre de Florida Occidental y Florida Oriental . Son comprehendidos en este articulo las yslas adyacentes dependientes de
dichas dos provincias, los sitios, plazas publicas, terrenos valdios, edificios publicos, fortificaciones, casernas y otros edificios, que no sean
propiedad de algun individuo particular, los archivos y documentos directamente relativos á la propiedad y soberania de las mismas dos provincias. Dichos archivos y documentos se entregarán á los comisarios ú oficiales de los Estados Unidos debidamente autorizados para recibirlos.
ART. 3.
La linea divisoria entre los dos paises al occidente del Misisipi, arrancará del Seno Mexicano, en la embodacura del Rio Sabina, en el Mar,
property, remain undisturbed. Had Florida changed its sovereign by an act containing no stipulation respecting the property of individuals, the right of property in all those who became subjects or citizens of the new government, would have been unaffected by the change. It would have remained the same as underthe ancient sovereign. United States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 51 .
The language of the second article of the treaty between the United States and Spain, of 22d February 1819, by which Florida was ceded to the United States, conforms to this general principle. Ibid.
The eighth article of the treaty must be intended to stipulate expressly for the security to private property, which the laws and usages of nations would, without express stipulation , have conferred. No construction which would impair that security, further than its positive words require, would seem to be admissible. Without it, the titles of individuals would remain as valid under the new government, as they were under the old. And those titles, so far at least as they were consummated, might be asserted in the courts of the United States, independently of this article. Ibid.
The treaty was drawn up in the Spanish as well as in the English languages. Both are original, and were unquestionably intended by the parties to be identical. The Spanish has been translated ; and it is now understood that the article expressed in that language is, that " the grants shall remain ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of them, to the same extent," & c., thus conforming exactly to the universally received law of nations. Ibid.
If the English and Spanish part can , without violence, be made to agree, that construction which establishes this conformity ought to prevail. Ibid.
No violence is done to the language of the treaty by a construction which conforms the English and Spanish to each other. Although the words " shall be ratified and confirmed ," are properly words of contract, stipulating for some future legislation , they are not necessarily so. They may import that "they shall be ratified and confirmed" by force of the instrument itself. When it is observed that in the counterpart of the same treaty, executed at the same time, by the same parties, they are used in this sense, the construction is proper, if not unavoidable. Ibid.
In the case of Foster v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 253, the supreme court considered those words importing a contract. The Spanish part of the treaty was not then brought into view, and it was then supposed there was no variance between them. It was not supposed that there was even a formal difference of expression in the same instrument, drawn up in the language of each party. Had this circumstance been known, it is believed it would have produced the construction which is now given to the article. Ibid.

256

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

Boundary line in the sea, continuing north, along the western bank of that river, to
west of the Mis- the 32d degree of latitude ; thence, by a line due north, to the degree sissippi.
of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Nachitoches, or Red River ;

then following the course of the Rio Roxo westward , to the degree of

longitude 100 west from London and 23 from Washington ; then, cross-

ing the said Red River, and running thence, by a line due north, to the

river Arkansas ; thence, following the course of the southern bank of

According to Melish's Map, of 1st Jan. 1818.

the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude 42 north; and thence, by that parallel of latitude, to the South Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, 1818. But, if the source ofthe Arkansas

river shall be found to fall north or south of latitude 42, then the line shall run from the said source due south or north, as the case may be,

till it meets the said parallel of latitude 42, and thence, along the said

The use ofthe waters of the Sabine, Red river, and Arkansas, com. mon to both nations.

parallel, to the South Sea : All the islands in the Sabine, and the said Red and Arkansas rivers, throughout the course thus described, to belong to the United States ; but the use of the waters, and the navigation of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said rivers Roxo and Arkansas, throughout the extent of the said boundary, on their respective banks, shall be common to the respective inhabitants of both nations.

Territorial re-
nunciations , corresponding with the boun. dary line.

The two high contracting parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights, claims, and pretensions, to the territories described by the said line ; that is to say : the United States hereby cede to his Catholic Majesty, and renounce forever, all their rights, claims, and pretensions, to the territories lying west and south of the above- described line ; and, in like manner, his Catholic Majesty cedes to the said United States, all his rights, claims, and pretensions, to any territories east and north of the said line ; and for himself, his heirs, and successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever.

ARTICLE 4.

A commission-
er and surveyor to be appointed by each party, torun the boundary line.

To fix this line with more precision , and to place the landmarks which shall designate exactly the limits of both nations, each of the contracting parties shall appoint a Commissioner and a Surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of one year, from the date of the ratification of this treaty, at Nachitoches, on the Red River, and proceed to run and mark the said line, from the mouth of the Sabine to the Red river, and from the Red river to the river Arkansas, and to ascertain the latitude of the source of the said river Arkansas, in conformity to what is above agreed upon and stipulated, and the line of latitude 42, to the South Sea : they shall make out plans, and keep journals of their proceedings, and the result agreed upon by them shall be considered as part of this treaty, and shall have the same force as if it were inserted therein. The two governments will amicably agree respecting the necessary articles to be furnished to those persons, and also as to their respective escorts, should such be deemed necessary.

ARTICLE 5.

Free exercise
of religion in the ceded territories, &c.

The inhabitants of the ceded territories shall be secured in the free exercise of their religion , without any restriction ; and all those who may desire to remove to the Spanish dominions , shall be permitted to sell or export their effects, at any time whatever, without being subject, in either case, to duties.

Inhabitants of the ceded territories to be incorporated in the Union, &c.

ARTICLE 6.
The inhabitants of the territories which his Catholic Majesty cedes to the United States, by this Treaty, shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States, as soon as may be consistent with the principles

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

257

seguirá al Norte por la orilla occidental de este Rio, hasta el grado 32 de latitud ; desde, alli por una linea recta al Norte, hasta el grado de latitud en que entra en el Rio Roxo de Natchitochez ( Red River, ) y continuará por el curso del Rio Roxo al oeste, hasta el grado 100 de longitud occidental de Londres y 23 de Washington ; en que, cortará este Rio, y seguirá por una linea recta al Norte, por el mismo grado, hasta el Rio Arkansas, cuya orilla meridional , seguirá hasta su nacimiento en el grado 42 de latitud Septentrional ; y desde, dicho punto, se tirará una linea recta por el mismo paralelo de latitud , hasta el Mar del Sur. Todo segun el Mapa de los Estados Unidos de Melish, publicado en Philadelphia, y perfecionado en 1818. Pero si el nacimiento del Rio Arkansas se hallase al Norte ó Sur de dicho grado 42 de latitud, seguirá la linea desde el origen de dicho Rio recta al Sur ó Norte, segun fuese necesario, hasta que encuentre el expresado grado 42 de latitud, y desde, alli por el mismo paralelo, hasta el Mar del Sur. Pertenecerán á los Estados Unidos todas las yslas de los Rios Sabina, Roxo de Natchitochez, y Arkansas, en la extension de todo el curso descrito ; pero el uso de las aguas, y la navegacion del Sabina hasta el Mar, y de los expresados Rios Roxo y Arkansas, en toda la extension de sus mencionados limites, en sus respectivas orillas, sera comun á los habitantes de las dos naciones.
Las dos altas partes contratantes convienen en ceder y renunciar todos sus derechos, reclamaciones, y pretensiones, sobre los territorios que se describen en esta linea ; á saber, S. M. Ca. renuncia y cede, para siempre, por si, y á nombre de sus herederos y sucesores , todos los derechos que tiene sobre los territorios al Este y al Norte de dicha linea ; y los Estados Unidos, en igual forma, ceden á S. M. Ca. y renuncian, parà a siempre, todos sus derechos, reclamaciones, y pretensiones, á qualesquiera territorios situados al Oeste y al Sur de la misma linea arriba descrita.

ART. 4.

Para fixar esta linea con mas precision y establecer los mojones que señalen con exactitud los limites de ambas naciones, nombrará cada una de ellas un comisario y un geómetra, que se juntarán antes del termino de un año, contado desde la fecha de la ratificacion de este Tratado, en Natchitochez , en las orillas del Rio Roxo, y procederán á señalar y demarcar dicha linea, desde la embocadura del Sabina, hasta el Rio Roxo, y de este hasta el Rio Arkansas, y á averiguar, con certidumbre, el origen del expresado Rio Arkansas, y fixar, segun queda estipulado y convenido en este Tratado, la linea que debe seguir, desde el grado 42 de latitud, hasta el Mar Pacifico. Llevaran diarios y levantarán planos de sus operaciones, y el resultado convenido por ellos se tendrá por parte de este Tratado, y tendrá la misma fuerza que si estuviese inserto in el ; deviendo convenir amistosamente los dos gobiernos en el arreglo de quanto necesiten estos individuos, y en la escolta respectiva que deban llevar, siempre que se crea necesario.
ART. 5.
A los habitantes de todos los territorios cedidos se les conservará el
exercicio libre de su religion , sin restriccion alguna ; y á todos los que
quisieren trasladarse à los dominios Españoles, se les permitirá la venta ó extraccion de sus efectos en qualquiera tiempo, sin que pueda exigirseles en unó ni otro caso derecho alguno.

ART. 6.

Los habitantes de los territorios que S. M. C cede por este Tratado

á los Estados Unidos, seran incorporados en la Union de los mismos

Estados, lo mas presto posible, segun los principios de la Constitucion

VOL. VIII.

33

w2

258

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

of the Federal Constitution, and admitted to the enjoyment of all the privileges, rights, and immunities, of the citizens of the United States.

ARTICLE 7.

Spanish troops to be with-
dsersaswionn, aginvdepnoswithin 6 months

The officers and troops of his Catholic Majesty, in the territories hereby ceded by him to the United States, shall be withdrawn , and possession of the places occupied by them shall be given within six months after the exchange of the ratifications of this Treaty, or sooner, if pos-

oafftreartiefxiccahtainongse.

sible, by the officers of his Catholic Majesty, to the commissioners or officers of the United States, duly appointed to receive them ; and the United States shall furnish the transports and escort necessary to convey

the Spanish officers and troops, and their baggage, to the Havana.

ARTICLE 8..

Grants of land All the grants of land made before the 24th of January, 1818, by his

b1e8f1o8r,ec2o4ntfhiJram-n. Catholic Majesty, or by his lawful authorities, in the said territories

ed, & c.

ceded by his Majesty to the United States, shall be ratified and confirmed

to the persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent that the

same grants would be valid if the territories had remained under the

Owners to ful- dominion of his Catholic Majesty. But the owners in possession of fil the condi- such lands , who, by reason of the recent circumstances of the Spanish tions.
nation, and the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from ful-

filling all the conditions of their grants, shall complete them within the

terms limited in the same, respectively, from the date of this treaty ; in

default of which, the said grants shall be null and void. All grants Grants since made since the said 24th of January, 1818, when the first proposal , on

2nu4ltlh aJnadn.vo1i8d1.8, the part of his Catholic Majesty, for the cession of the Floridas, was made, are hereby declared, and agreed to be, null and void.

ARTICLE 9.

Reciprocal renunciation of claims.
Claims renounced bythe United States.

The two high contracting parties, animated with the most earnest desire of conciliation , and with the object of putting an end to all the differences which have existed between them, and of confirming the good understanding which they wish to be forever maintained betwee them , reciprocally renounce all claims for damages or injuries which they, themselves, as well as their respective citizens and subjects, may have suffered until the time of signing this Treaty.
The renunciation of the United States will extend to all the injuries mentioned in the Convention of the 11th of August, 1802.
2. To all claims on account of prizes made by French privateers, and condemned by French consuls, within the territory and jurisdiction of Spain.
3. To all claims of indemnities on account of the suspension of the right of deposit at New-Orleans, in 1802.
4. To all claims of citizens of the United States upon the government of Spain, arising from the unlawful seizures at sea, and in the ports and territories of Spain, or the Spanish colonies.

Claims renounced by Spain.

5. To all claims of citizens of the United States upon the Spanish government, statements of which, soliciting the interposition of the government of the United States, have been presented to the Department of State , or to the Minister of the United States in Spain, since the date of the Convention of 1802, and until the signature of this Treaty.
The renunciation of his Catholic Majesty extends : 1. To all the injuries mentioned in the Convention of the 11th of August, 1802. 2. To the sums which his Catholic Majesty advanced for the return of Captain Pike from the Provincias Internas.

TREATY WITH SPAIN 1819.

259

Federal, y admitidos al goce de todos los privilegios, derechos, é inmunidades, de que disfrutan los ciudadanos de los demas Estados.
ART . 7.
Los oficiales y tropas de S. M. Ca evacuarán los territorios cedidos á los Estados Unidos seis meses despues del cange de la ratificacion de este Tratado, ó antes si fuese posible, y darán posesion de ellos à los oficiales ó comisarios de los Estados Unidos debidamente autorizados para recibirlos : Y los Estados Unidos proveerán los transportes y escolta necesarios para llevar á la Habana los oficiales y tropas Españoles, y sus equipages.

ART. 8.
Todas las concesiones de terrenos hechas por S. M. Ca. ó por sus legitimas autoridades antes del 24 de Enero, de 1818, en los expresados territorios que S. M. cede á los Estados Unidos, quedarán ratificadas y reconocidas á las personas que esten en posesion de ellas, del mismo modo que lo serian si S. M. hubiese continuado en el dominio de estos territorios ; pero los proprietarios que por un efecto de las circumstancias en que se ha hallado la Nacion Española y por las revoluciones de Europa, no hubiesen podido llenar todas las obligaciones de las concesiones, seran obligados á cumplirlas segun las condiciones de sus respectivas concesiones, desde la fecha de este Tratado, en defecto de lo qual seran nulas y de ningun valor. Todas las concesiones posteriores al 24 de Enero de 1818 , en que fueron hechas las primeras proposiciones de parte de S. M. Ca para la cesion de las dos Floridas, convienen y declaran las dos altas partes contratantes que quedan anuladas y de ningun valor.
ART. 9.
Las dos altas partes contratantes, animadas de los mas vivos deseos de conciliacion, y con el objeto de cortar de raiz todas las discusiones que han existido entre ellas y afianzar la buena armonia que desean mantener perpetuamente, renuncian , una y otra, reciprocamente, á todas las reclamaciones de daños y perjuicios que asi ellas como sus respectivos subditos y ciudadanos hayan experimentado hasta el dia en que se firme este Tratado.
La renuncia de los Estados Unidos se extiende á todos los perjuicios mencionados en el Convenio de 11 de Agosto, de 1802.
2. A todas las reclamaciones de presas hechas por los Corsarios Franceses, y condenadas por los Consules Franceses dentro del territorio y jurisdiccion de España.
3. A todas las reclamaciones de indemnizaciones por la suspension del derecho de deposito en Nueva Orleans en 1802.
4. Atodas las reclamaciones de los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos
contra el gobierno Español , procedentes de presas y confiscaciones injustas asi en la mar como en los puertos y territorios de S. M. en España y sus colonias.
5. A todas las reclamaciones de los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos
contra el gobierno de España, en que se haya reclamado la interposicion del gobierno de los Estados Unidos antes de la fecha de este Tratado, y desde la fecha del Convenio de 1802 , ó presentadas al Departamento de Estado de esta Republica , ó Ministro de los Estados Unidos en España.
La renuncia de S. M. Ca. se extiende :
1. A todos los perjuicios mencionados en el Convenio de 11 de Agosto, de 1802.
2. A las cantidades que suplió, para la vuelta del Capitan Pike, de as Provincias Internas.

260

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

3. To all injuries caused bythe expedition of Miranda, that was fitted out and equipped at New-York.
4. To all claims of Spanish subjects upon the government of the United States, arising from unlawful seizures at sea, or within the ports and territorial jurisdiction of the United States.

Renunciation of claims for ransactions in be Floridas.

Finally, to all the claims of subjects of his Catholic Majesty upon the government of the United States, in which the interposition of his Catholic Majesty's government has been solicited, before the date of this Treaty, and since the date of the Convention of 1802 , or which may have been made to the Department of Foreign Affairs of his Majesty, or to his Minister in the United States.
And the high contracting parties, respectively, renounce all claim to indemnities for any of the recent events or transactions of their respective commanders and officers in the Floridas.

Satisfaction by the U. S. for
injuries to inhabitants of Florida.

The United States will cause satisfaction to be made for the injuries, if any, which, by process of law, shall be established to have been
suffered by the Spanish officers, and individual Spanish inhabitants, by the late operations of the American army in Florida.

ARTICLE 10.

Convention of a1n1tnhulAluegd.. 1802, Ante, p. 198.

The Convention entered into between the two governments, on the 11th of August, 1802, the ratifications of which were exchanged the 21st December, 1818, is annulled.

ARTICLE 11 .

U.S. to satisfy claims of their citizens to amount of
$5,000,000. Three com-

The United States, exonerating Spain from all demands in future, on account of the claims of their citizens to which the renunciations
herein contained extend , and considering them entirely cancelled, undertake to make satisfaction for the same, to an amount not exceeding
five millions of dollars. To ascertain the full amount and validity of

missioners to be those claims, a Commission , to consist of three Commissioners, citizens appointed, to decide upon of the United States, shall be appointed by the President, by and with

claims.

the advice and consent of the Senate, which Commission shall meet at

the City of Washington , and , within the space of three years from the

time of their first meeting, shall receive, examine, and decide upon the

Commissioners to take an oath , & c .

amount and validity of, all the claims included within the descriptions above mentioned. The said Commissioners shall take an oath or affirm-
ation , to be entered on the record of their proceedings, for the faithful and diligent discharge of their duties ; and, in case of the death, sick-

ness, or necessary absence, of any such Commissioner, his place may

be supplied by the appointment, as aforesaid, or by the President of the

Commissioners may hear
and examine on oath , & c.
Spanish go. vernment to furnish docu-
ments, & c.

United States, during the recess of the Senate, of another Commissioner in his stead. The said Commissioners shall be authorized to
hear and examine, on oath, every question relative to the said claims, and to receive all suitable authentic testimony concerning the same.
And the Spanish government shall furnish all such documents and elucidations as may be in their possession , for the adjustment of the said claims, according to the principles of justice, the laws of nations, and

the stipulations of the Treaty, between the two parties, of 27th October,

1795 ; the said documents to be specified , when demanded , at the instance of the said Commissioners.

Payment of the claims.

The payment of such claims as may be admitted and adjusted by the said Commissioners , or the major part of them, to an amount not exceeding five millions of dollars, shall be made by the United States, either immediately at their Treasury, or by the creation of Stock bearing an interest of six per cent. per annum, payable from the proceeds of sales of public lands within the territories hereby ceded to the

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

261

3. A los perjuicios causados por la expedicion de Miranda, armada y equipada en Nueva York.
4. A todas las reclamaciones de los subditos de S. M. Ca. contra el gobierno de los Estados Unidos, procedentes de presas y confiscaciones injustas asi en la mar como en los puertos y territorios de los Estados Unidos.
5. A todas las reclamaciones de los subditos de S. M. Ca. contra el
gobierno de los Estados Unidos, en que se haya reclamado la interposicion del gobierno de España antes de la fecha de este Tratado, y desde la fecha del Convenio de 1802, ó que hayan sido presentadas al Departamento de Estado de S. M. ó á su Ministro en los Estados Unidos.

Las altas partes contratantes renuncian reciprocamente todos sus derechos á indemnizaciones por qualquiera de los ultimos acontecimientos y transacciones de sus respectivos comandantes y oficiales en las Floridas.
Y los Estados Unidos satisfarán los perjuicios, si los hubiese habido, que los habitantes y oficiales Españoles justifiquen legalmente haber sufrido por las operaciones del Exercito Americano en ellas.

ART . 10.
Queda anulado el Convenio hecho entre los dos gobiernos, en 11 de Agosto, de 1802, cuyas ratificaciones fueron cangeadas en 21 de Diciembre de 1818.
ART. 11 .
Los Estados Unidos descargando á la España para lo sucesivo de todas las reclamaciones de sus ciudadanos á que se extienden las renuncias hechas, en este Tratado, y dandolas por enteramente canceladas, toman sobre si la satisfaccion ó pago de todas ellas hasta la cantidad de cinco millones de pesos fuertes. El Sor. Presidente nombrará, con consentimiento y aprobacion del Senado, una Comision compuesta de tres Comisionados , ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos, para averiguar con
certidumbre el importe total y justificacion de estas reclamaciones ; la qual se reunirá en la Ciudad de Washington, y en el espacio de tres años, desde su reunion primera, recibirá, examinará, y decidirá, sobre el importe y justificacion de todas las reclamaciones arriba expresadas y descritas. Los dichos comisionados prestarán juramento, que se anotará en los quadernos de sus operaciones, para el desempeño fiel y eficaz de sus deberes, y en caso de muerte, enfermedad, ó ausencia precisa de alguno de ellos, será reemplazado del mismo modo, ó por el Sor. Presidente de los Estados Unidos, en ausencia del Senado. Los dichos comisionados se hallaran autorizados para oir y examinar bajo juramento qualquiera demanda relativa á dichas reclamaciones, y para recibir los testimonios autenticos y convenientes relativos á ellas. El gobierno Español subministrará todos aquellos documentos y aclaraciones que esten en su poder para el ajuste de las expresadas reclamaciones, segun los principios de justicia, el derecho de gentes, y las estipulaciones del Tratado entre las dos partes de 27 de Octubre, de 1795, cuyos documentos se especificarán quando se pidan á instancia de dichos comisionados.
Los Estados Unidos pagarán aquellas reclamaciones que sean admitidas y ajustadas por los dichos comisionados, ó por la mayor parte de ellos, hasta la cantidad de cinco millones de pesos fuertes, sea immediatamente en su Tesoreria, ó por medio de una creacion de fondos con el interés de un seis por ciento al año, pagaderos de los productos de las ventas de los terrenos valdios en los territorios aqui cedidos á los

262

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

Records of
proceedings ,
&c. to be depospiatretdmienntthoefDeState. Copies to the Spanish government.

United States, or in such other manner as the Congress of the United States may prescribe by law.
The records of the proceedings of the said Commissioners, together with the vouchers and documents produced before them , relative to the claims to be adjusted and decided upon by them, shall, after the close of their transactions, be deposited in the Department of State of the
United States ; and copies of them, or any part of them, shall be furnished to the Spanish government, if required, at the demand of the Spanish Minister in the United States.

ARTICLE 12.

Treaty of 1795
confirmed, with exceptions. Ante, p . 138.

The Treaty of Limits and Navigation , of 1795, remains confirmed in all , and each one of, its articles, excepting the 2, 3, 4, 21 , and the second clause of the 22d article, which, having been altered by this Treaty, or having received their entire execution, are no longer valid.

Neutral flag to With respect to the 15th article of the same Treaty of Friendship,

cover enemies' Limits, and Navigation, of 1795, in which it is stipulated that the flag
property ,where. shall cover the property, the two high contracting parties agree that this Ante, p. 146.
shall be so understood with respect to those powers who recognise this

principle ; but, if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war

with a third party, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall

cover the property of enemies whose government acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE 13.

Sailors deserting to be delivered up on proof, &c.

Both contracting parties, wishing to favour their mutual commerce, by affording in their ports every necessary assistance to their respective merchant vessels , have agreed, that the sailors who shall desert from their vessels in the ports of the other, shall be arrested and delivered up, at the instance of the consul, who shall prove, nevertheless, that the deserters belonged to the vessels that claimed them , exhibiting the document that is customary in their nation ; that is to say, the American consul in a Spanish port, shall exhibit the document known by the name of Articles ; and the Spanish consul in American ports, the Roll of the vessel ; and if the name of the deserter or deserters, who are claimed, shall appear in the one or the other, they shall be arrested, held in custody, and delivered to the vessel to which they shall belong.

ARTICLE 14.

U. S. certify that they received no compensation from France for
fcolraiinmsthpirsovided treaty.

The United States hereby certify that they have not received any compensation from France, for the injuries they suffered from her privateers, consuls , and tribunals, on the coasts and in the ports of Spain, for the satisfaction of which provision is made by this treaty ; and they will present an authentic statement of the prizes made, and of their
true value, that Spain may avail herself of the same, in such manner as she may deem just and proper.

ARTICLE 15.

Spanish ves-
sels , laden with Spanish productions, to be ad-
mitted into the
cpoolratsanodf SPte.nAsua-
gustine without higher duties than vessels of the U. S. , for twelve years.

The United States, to give to his Catholic Majesty a proof of their desire to cement the relations of amity subsisting between the two
nations, and to favour the commerce of the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, agree that Spanish vessels, coming laden only with productions of Spanish growth or manufactures, directly from the ports of Spain, or of her colonies, shall be admitted, for the term of twelve years, to the ports of Pensacola and St. Augustine, in the Floridas, without paying other or higher duties on their cargoes, or of tonnage, than will be paid by the vessels of the United States. During the said term , no

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

263

Estados Unidos, ó de qualquiera otra manera que el Congreso de los Estados Unidos ordene por ley.
Se depositarán, despues de concluidas sus transacciones, en el Departamento de Estado de los Estados Unidos, los quadernos de las operaciones de los dichos Comisionados, juntamente con los documentos que se les presenten relativos á las reclamaciones que deben ajustar y decidir ; y se entregarán copias de ellos ó de parte de ellos al Gobierno Español, y á peticion de su Ministro en los Estados Unidos, si lo solicitase.

ART . 12.
El Tratado de Limites y Navegacion de 1795, queda confirmado en todos y cada uno de sus articulos, excepto los articulos, 2, 3, 4, 21 , y la segunda clausula del 22, que habiendo sido alterados por este Tratado, ó cumplidos enteramente no pueden tener valor alguno.
Con respecto al articulo 15 del mismo Tratado de Amistad, Limites y Navegacion, de 1795, en que se estipula que la bandera cubre la propiedad, han convenido las dos altas partes contratantes en que esto se entienda asi con respecto á aquellas potencias que reconozcan este principio ; pero que, si una de las dos partes contratantes estuviere en guerra con una tercera, y la otra neutral , la bandera de esta neutral cubrirà la propiedad de los enemigos cuyo gobierno reconozca este principio, y no de otros.
ART. 13 .
Deseando ambas potencias contratantes favorecer el comercio reciproco prestando cada una en sus puertos todos los auxilios convenientes á sus respectivos buques mercantes, han acordado en hacer prender y entregar los marineros que desierten de sus buques en los puertos de la otra, á instancia del Consul ; quien sin embargo deberá probar que los desertores pertenecen á los buques que los reclaman , manifestando el documento de costumbre en su nacion ; esto es, que el Consul Español en puerto Americano exhibirá el Roll del Buque, y el Consul Americano en puerto Español, el documento conocido bajo el nombre de Articles ; y constando en uno ú otro el nombre ó nombres del desertor ó desertores que se reclaman , se procederá al arresto, custodia, y entrega al buque á que correspondan.
. 14.
Los Estados Unidos certifican por el presente que no han recibido compensacion alguna de la Francia por los perjuicios que sufrieron de sus corsarios, consules y tribunales, en las costas y puertos de España, para cuya satisfaccion se provee en este Tratado, y presentarán una relacion justificada de las presas hechas, y de su verdadero valor, para que la España pueda servirse de ella en la manera que mas juzgue justo y conveniente.
ART. 15.
Los Estados Unidos para dar á S. M. Ca. una prueba de sus deseos de cimentar las relaciones de Amistad que existen entre las dos naciones, y de favorecer el Comercio de los subditos de S. M. Ca. convienen en que, los buques Españoles que vengan solo cargados de productos de sus frutos ó manufacturas directamente de los puertos de España ó de sus colonias, sean admitidos por el espacio de doce años en los puertos de Panzacola y San Augustin de las Floridas, sin pagar mas derechos por sus cargamentos, ni mayor derecho de tonelage, que el que paguen los buques de los Estados Unidos. Durante este tiempo ninguna nacion

264

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

other nation shall enjoy the same privileges within the ceded territories. The twelve years shall commence three months after the exchange of the ratifications of this Treaty.

ARTICLE 16.

Treaty to be

The present Treaty shall be ratified in due form, by the contracting

ratified, and ratifications ex-

parties, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in six months from this

changed .

time, or sooner, if possible.

In witness whereof, we, the under written Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of his Catholic Majesty, have signed, by virtue of our powers, the present Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits, and have thereunto affixed our seals, respectively.

Done at Washington , this twenty-second day of February, one thousand eight hundred and nineteen.

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, (L. s.)

LUIS DE ONIS,

(L. S.)

Ratification by his Catholic Majesty, on the twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty.

Oct. 24, 1820.

" Ferdinand the Seventh, by the Grace of God, and by the constitution of the Spanish monarchy, king of the Spains.

"Dn. Fernando Septimo, por la Gracia de Dios, y por la Constitucion de la Monarquia Española, Rey de las Españas.

Ratification,
by the King of Spain, ofthe treaty ofFeb. 22, 1819.

Whereas, on the twenty-second day of February, of the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen last past, a treaty was concluded and signed in the City of Washington, between Don Luis de Onis, my Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, and John Quincy Adams, Esquire, Secretary of State of the United States of
America, competently authorized by both parties, consisting of sixteen articles, which had for their
object the arrangement of differences and of limits between both governments and their respective territories ; which are of the following form and literal tenor :

Por cuanto en el dia veinte y dos de Febrero del año proximo
pasado de mil ochocientos diez y nueve, se concluyo y firmo en la Ciudad de Washington , entre Dn Luis de Onis, mi Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario, y Dn . Juan Quincy Adams, Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos de America, autorizados competentemente por ambas partes, un Tratado compuesto de diez y seis articulos , que tiene por objeto el Arreglo de Diferiencias y de Limites entre ambos Gobiernos y sus respectivos Territorios ; cuya forma y tenor literal es el siguiente :

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

265

tendrá derecho á los mismos privilegios en los territorios cedidos. Los doce años empezaran á contarse tres meses despues de haberse cambiado las ratificaciones de este Tratado.

ART. 16.
El presente Tratado sera ratificado en debida forma por las partes contratantes, y las ratificaciones se cangearán en el espacio de seis meses desde esta fecha, ó mas pronto si es posible.

En fé de lo qual nosotros los infrascritos Plenipotenciarios de S. M. Ca., y de los Estados Unidos de America, hemos firmado en virtud de nuestros poderes, el presente Tratado de Amistad, Arreglo de Diferencias, y Limites, y le hemos puesto nuestros sellos respectivos.

Hecho en Washington, á veinte y dos de Febrero, de mil ochocientos diez y nueve.

LUIS DE ONIS ,

(L. S.)

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS , (L. s.)

Por tanto, haviendo visto y examinado los referidos diez y seis articulos, y habiendo precedido la anuencia y autorizacion de las Cortes Generales de la Nacion, por lo respectivo a la cesion que en los articulos 2º y 3° se menciona y estipula, he venido en aprobar y ratificar todos y cada uno de los referidos articulos y clausulas que en ellos se contiene ; y en virtud de la presente los apruebo y ratifico ; prometiendo en fe y palabra de Rey, cumplirlos y observarlos, y hacer que se cumplan y observen enteramente como si yo mismo los hubiese firmado : sin que sirva de obstaculo en manera alguna la circumstancia de haber transcurrido el termino de los seis meses prefijados para el cange de las ratificaciones en el articulo 16 ; pues mi deliberada voluntad es que la presente ratificacion sea tan valida y subsistente y produzca los mismos efectos que si hubiese sido hecha dentro del termino prefijado. Yo deseando al mismo tiempo evitar qualquiera duda 6 ambiguidad que pueda ofrecer el contenido del articulo 8° . del referido Tratado, con motivo de la fecha que en el se señala como termino para la validacion de las concesiones de tierras en las Floridas, hechas por mi ó por las autoridades competentes en mi real nombre, a cuyo señalamiento de fecha se procedió en la positiva inteligencia de dejar anuladas por su tenor las tres concesiones de tierras hechas a favor del Dugue de Alagon, Conde de Puñonrostro, y Dn . Pedro de Vargas ; tengo a bien declarar que las referidas tres concesiones han quedado y quedan enteramento anuladas è invalidadas ; sin que los tres individuos referidos, ni los que de estos tengan titulo ó causa, puedan aprovecharse de dichas concesiones en tiempo ni manera alguna : bajo cuya explicita declaracion se ha de entender ratificado el referido articulo 8°. En fé de todo
lo cual mandé despachar la presente firmada de mi mano, sellada con mi sello secreto, y refrendada por el infrascripto mi Secretario des Despacho de Estado.

Dada en Madrid, a veinte y quatro de Octubre, de mil ochocientos veinte.

[Sig. ]

FERNANDO .

[ Refren. ] EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

VOL. VIII. 34

X

266

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

[ Here follows the above Treaty, word for word.]

Therefore, having seen and examined the sixteen articles aforesaid, and having first obtained the consent and authority of the General Cortes of the nation with re-
spect to the cession mentioned and stipulated in the 2d and 3d articles, I approve and ratify all and every one of the articles referred to, and the clauses which are contained in them ; and, in virtue of these presents, I approve and ratify them ; promising, on the faith and word of a King, to execute and observe them , and to cause them to be executed and observed entirely as if
I myself had signed them : and that the circumstance of having exceeded the term of six months, fixed for the exchange of the ratifications in the 16th article, may afford no obstacle in any manner , it is my deliberate will that the present ratification be as valid and firm, and produce the same effects, as if it had been done within the determined period. Desirous at the same time of avoiding any doubt or ambiguity concerning the meaning of the 8th article of the said treaty, in respect to the date which is pointed out in it as the period for the confirmation of the grants of lands in the Floridas, made by me, or by the competent authorities in my royal name, which point of date was fixed in the positive understanding of the three grants of land made in favor of the Duke of Alagon, the Count of Punonrostro, and Don Pedro de Vargas, being annulled by its tenor, I think proper to declare that the said three grants have remained and do re-
main entirely annulled and invalid ; and that neither the three individuals mentioned , nor those who may have title or interest through them, can avail themselves of the said grants at any time, or in any manner under which explicit declaration the said 8th article is to be understood as ratified . In the faith of all which I have com-
manded to despatch these presents. Signed by my hand, sealed with

" Por tanto, haviendo visto y examinado los referidos diez y seis articulos, y habiendo precedido la anuencia y autorizacion de las Cortes Generales de la Nacion por lo respectivo a la cesion que en los articulos 2° y 3° se menciona y estipula, he venido en aprobar y ratificar todos y cada uno de los referidos articulos y clausulas que en ellos se contiene ; y en virtud de la presente los apruebo y ratifico ; prometiendo en fe y palabra de Rey cumplirlos y observarlos, y hacer que se cumplan y observen enteramente como si Yo mismo los
hubiese firmado : sin que sirva de obstaculo en manera alguna la circumstancia de haber transcurrido el termino de los seis meses prefijados para el cange de las ratificaciones en el articulo 16 ; pues mi deliberada voluntad es que la presente ratificacion sea tan valida y subsistente y produzca los mismos efectos que si hubiese sido hecha dentro del termino prefijado. Yo
deseando al mismo tiempo evitar qualquiera duda ó ambiguidad que pueda ofrecer el contenido del articulo 8° . del referido Tratado con
motivo de la fecha que en el se señela como termino para la validacion de las concesiones de tierras en las Floridas, hechas por mi ó por las autoridades competentes en mi real nombre, a cuyo señalamiento de fecha se procedió en la positiva inteligencia de dejar anuladas por su tenor las tres concesiones de tierras hechas a favor del Duque de Alagon, Conde de Puñonrostro, y Dn. Pedro de Vargas ; tengo a bien declarar que has referidas tres concesiones han quedado y quedan enteramento anuladas è invalidadas ; sin que los tres individuos referidos, ni los que de estos tengan titulo ô causa, puedan aprovecharse de dichas concesiones en tiempo ni manera alguna : bajo cuya explicita declaracion se ha de entender ratificado el referido articulo 8° . En fé de todo lo cual
mandé despachar la presente firma da de mi mano, sellada con mi

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819 .

267

my secret seal, and countersigned sello secreto, y refrendada por el

by the underwritten my Secretary infrascripto mi Secretario del Des

of Despatch of State.

pacho de Estado.

Given at Madrid, the twentyfourth of October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty.

Dada en Madrid , a veinte y quatro de Octubre, de mil ochocientos veinte.

[ Sign. ]

FERNANDO. [Sig.]

FERNANDO.

[Countersigned, ]

[Refren. ]

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO." EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO."

The following are the grants which have been annulled by the foregoing treaty :
COPIA.
Don Antonio Porcel, Caballero pensionista de la Real y distinguida Orden de Carlos 3°. del Consejo de Estado, y Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de la Gobernacion de Ultramar, & c.
Certifico que con fecha seis de Febrero, de mil ochocientos diez y ocho, se espidieron por el estinguido Consejo de las Indias, Reales Cedulas de igual tenor, al Gobernador Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito, al Intendente de Exercito y Real Hacienda de la Havana y su distrito, y al Gobernador de las Floridas, para que Cada uno en la parte que le tocare dispusiese lo conveniente a que tuviese efecto la gracia concedida al Dugue de Alagon de varios terrenos en la Florida Oriental, cuyo contenido es el siguiente.
"EL REY.
Mi Gobernador y Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito. El Dugue de Alagon, Baron de Espes, me hizo presente en esposicion de doce de Julio del ano ultimo lo que sigue- Senor : El Dugue de Alagon, Baron de Espes, Capitan de Guardias de la Real Persona de V. M. con el mayor respeto espone : que siendo un interes de la Corona, que se den a grandes Capitalistas los terrenos incultos para que se pueblen y cultiven en lo que se resultan unas ventajas demostradas y aconsejadas por todos los Politicos, en cuyo caso se hallan muchos, ocasi los mas del fertil suelo de las Floridas ; y siendo tambien un derecho de V. M. como dueno absoluto, el distribuirlos en obseguio de la Agricultura ; y en premio y recompensa de los servicios interesantes que se le hacen con utilidad de V. M. y de su Reyno todo. Deseoso de merecer estas senales de aprecio de su magnanimo corazon, y de contribuir por mi parte a llenar las miras del poblacion tan interesantes al bien comun : a V. M. suplica se digne concederle el terreno inculto que no se halle cedido en la Florida Oriental, situado entre las Margenes de los Rios Santa Lucia y San Juan, hasta sus embocaduras en el mar, y la Costa del Golfo de la Florida, e yslas adyacentes, con la embocadura en el Rio Hijuelos, por el grado viente y seis de latitud, siguiendo su orilla izguienda hasta su nacimiento, tirando una linea ala Laguna Macaco, bajando luego por el Camino del Rio de San Juan hasta la laguna Valdes, cortando por otra linea desde el estremo norte de esta laguna hasta el nacimiento del Rio Amarima, siguiendo la orilla derecha hasta su embocadura por los viente y ocho u viente y cinco de latitud, y continuando por la costa del mar, con todas sus yslas adyacentes, hasta la embocadura del Rio Hijuelos, en plena propiedad para si y sus herederos, y permitiendose la introducion de Negros para el travajo y cultivo de las tierras libre de derechos gracia que espera merecer de la innata piedad de V. M. Enterado del contenido de esta
esposicion, y atendiendo al distinguido merito de este sugeto, y a su acreditado celo por mi Real servicio, como tambien a las ventajas que resultaran al Estado del aumento de poblacion de los citados paises que pretende, he tenido a bien acceder ala gracia que solicita en quanto no se oponga a las Leyes de esos mis Reynos ; y comunicarlo al mi Consejo de las Indias para su execucion, en Real orden de diez y siete de Diciembre del referido ano. En su consecuencia os mando y en cargo por
esta mi Real cedula que coc arreglo a las Leyes que rigen en la materia, auxilieis eficazmente la execucion de la espresada gracia, tomando todas las disposiciones que se dirigan asu devido efecto, sin perjuicio de tercero, y para que el espresado Dugue de Alagon pueda desde luego poner en execucion su designio conforme en todo con mis benificos deseos en obsequio de la agricultura y comercio de dhas posesiones, que

208

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

claman per una poblacion proporcionada ala feracidad de su suelo, y ala defensa y

seguridad de las costas, dando cuenta succesivamente de su progreso ; entendiendose que

la introducion de negros que comprende la misma gracia, deve sujetarse en quanto al

trafico de ellos, a las reglas prescriptas en mi Real Cedula de diez y nueve de Diciem-

bre ultimo, que asi es mi voluntad ; y que de esta cedula se tome razon en la Contaduria General de Indias. Fecha en Palacio a seis de Febrero, de mil ochocientos

diez y ocho.

YO EL REY.

Por mandado del Rey Nuestro Senor : ESTEBAN VAREA."

Y para que conste firmo esta Certificacion en Madrid, a quince de Octubre, de mil

ochocientos viente.

(Sig.)

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Caballero de numero de la orden de Carlos 3º. del

Consejo de Estado, y Secretario del Despacho de Estado, & c.

Certifico que la firma que antecede del Exmo. Sor. Don Antonio Porcel, Secretario del Despacho de la Gobernacion de Ultramar, es la que acostumbra poner en todos

sus escritos. Y para los efectos convenientes doy el presente certificado, firmado de mi mano y sellado con el escudo de mis armas, en Madrid, a viente y uno de Octubre,

de mil ochocientos y viente. (Sig.)

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

(TRANSLATION.) Don Antonio Porcel, Knight Pensioner of the Royal and distinguished Order of Charles 3d ; of the Council of State, and Secretary of State and of Despatch of the Ultra-Marine Government, &c. I certify, that, under date of the sixth of February, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, royal letters patent of the same tenor were sent by the late Council of the Indies to the Governor Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies, to the Intendant of the Army and Royal business of the Havana and its district, and to the Governor of the Floridas, that each should do his utmost, in his particular department, to give effect to the grant, made to the Duke of Alagon, of various lands in East Florida, of the following tenor :
THE KING.
My Governor and Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies : The Duke of Alagon, Baron de Espes, has manifested to me, on the twelfth of July last, as follows :-" Sire : The Duke of Alagon, Baron de Espes, Captain of your majesty's Royal Body Guards, with the greatest respect, exposes : that, it being the interest of the crown that the uncultivated lands should be given to great capitalists, in order that they may be peopled and cultivated, from which flow the advantages pointed out and advised by all politicians, and by means of which much or nearly the most ofthe fertile soil of the Floridas has been discovered, and it being a right ofyour majesty, as absolute lord, to distribute them for the benefit of agriculture, and in reward and recompense of the eminent services which have been rendered to your majesty and your whole kingdom ; being desirous of deserving those marks of the value ofhis magnanimous courage, and of contributing as far as possible to fulfil the designs of population, so interesting to the commonweal, he humbly requests your majesty, that you would deign to grant him all the uncultivated land not ceded in East Florida which lies between the rivers Saint Lucia and Saint John , as far as the mouths by which they empty themselves into the sea, and the coast of the Gulf of Florida, and the adjacent islands, with the mouth of the river Hijuelos, in the twentysixth degree of latitude, following the left bank up to its source, drawing a line from Lake Macaco, then descending by the way of the river Saint John to the Lake Valdes, crossing by another line from the extreme north of said lake to the source of the river Amarima, following its right bank as far as its mouth, in the twenty-eighth or twentyfifth degree of latitude, and running along the sea- coast, with all the adjacent Islands up to the mouth of the river Hijuelos, in full property to himself and his heirs : allowing them also to import negroes, for the labor and cultivation of the lands, free of duties : A gift which I hope to obtain from your Majesty's innate goodness."
Having taken the premises into consideration, and bearing in mind the distin guished merit of the memorialist, and his signal zeal for my royal service, as well as the benefits to be derived by the state from an increase of population in the countries the cession whereof he has solicited, I have judged fit to grant him the same, in so far as is conformable to the laws of these my kingdoms ; and to make it known to my

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

269

council of the Indies, for its due execution, by a royal order of the seventeenth of

December, in the year aforementioned : Wherefore, I charge and command you, by this my royal cedula, with due observance of the laws to such cases pertaining, to give full and effectual aid to the execution of the said cession, taking all requisite measures for its accomplishment, without injury to any third party : and in order

that the said Duke of Alagon may forthwith carry his plans into execution, in conformity with my beneficent desires in favor of the agriculture and commerce of the said territories, which require a population proportioned to the fertility of the soil and the defence and security of the coasts, he giving regular accounts of his proceedings ; it being understood that the introduction of negroes, which the same cession com-

prehends, ought, as far as relates to the traffic in them, to be subject to the regulations

prescribed in my royal cedula of the nineteenth of December last, for such is my will ; and that due note be taken of the present cedula in the office of the Accountant General of the Indies.

Dated at the Palace the sixth of February, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen

By command of the King our Lord : ESTEBAN VArea.

I, THE KING.

And I confirm this exemplification, at Madrid, the fifteenth of October, one thou-

sand eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed, )

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Knight of the Order of Charles 3d, of the Coun-

cil of State, and Secretary of Despatch of State, &c.

I certify that the foregoing signature of his Excellency Don Antonio Porcel, Secre-

tary of Despatch of the Ultra-Marine Government, is that which he is accustomed to

put to all his writings ; and for the proper purposes I give the present certificate, signed by my hand, and sealed with my seal of arms, at Madrid, the twenty-first of October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed,)

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

COPIA.
Don Antonio Porcel, Caballero pensionista de la Real y distinguida orden de Carlos tercero, del Consejo de Estado, y del Despacho de la Gobernacion de Ultramar, & c.
Certifico que con fecha de seis de Febrero, de mil ochocientos diez y ocho, se expedieron por el estinguido consejo de las Indias Reales Cedulas de igual tenor al Gobernador Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito, al Intendente de exercito y real Hacienda de la Havana y su distrito, y al Gobernador de las Floridas, para que cada uno en la parte que le tocase dispusiese lo conveniente a que tubiese efecto la gracia concedida al Brigadier Conde de Punonrostro de varios terrenos situados en la Florida Occidental, cuyo contenido es el siguiente.
"EL REY.
"Mi Gobernador y Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito. El Brigadier Conde de Punonrostro me hizo presente en exposicion de tres de Noviembre del ano ultimo lo que sigue- Senor : El Brigadier Conde de Punonrostro, Grande de Espana de primera clase, y vuestro Gentilhombre de Camara con exercicio, &c. &c. P. A. L. R. P. de V. M. con el mas profundo respeto, expone : que movido del anhelo de procurar por todos los medios posibles el hacer productible parte de los immensos terrenos despoblados e incultos que V. M. tiene en las Americas, y que por su feracidad prometen las mayores ventajas, tanto al que expone como al Estado, si llegase a verificarse, como lo espera, el noble proyecto que anima al exponente de convertir una pequena parte de aquellos desiertos en morada de habitantes pacificos cristianos e industriosos, que aumentando la poblacion de vuestros reynos, fomenten la agricultura y el comercio, y por consiguiente hagan immensos los ingresos de vuestro real Herario. Esta empresa dirigida por persona que al conocimiento del pays reune las circumstancias de poder comparar los progresos que han hecho por este medio otras naciones, como la de los Estados Unidos, que en una epoca muy limitada ha elevado su poder a un grado extraordinario, distinguiendose la Mobila adyacente a la Florida, que en los seis anos ultimos aprovechandose de la emigracion se ha convertido de un pays inculto y desierto, en una Provincia rica y comerciante, cultivada y poblada con mas de 300,000 habitantes. Esto mismo debe suceder a la Florida en el corto tiempo de diez y ocho o veinte anos si se adoptan las medidas conducentes a ello, y si al exemplo del exponente avandonan otros la apatia y se dedican a labrar su fortunat
x2

270

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

individual, y por consiguiente la del Estado. Confiado pues en lo re comendable de esta empresa, en los vivos deseos que animan a V. M. por la prosperidad de la Nacion, y en los servicios y sacrificios del exponente, se atreve a suplica a V. M. que en remuneracion de ellos se digne concederle en plena propiedad y con arreglo a las leyes que rigen en la materia, todas las tierras incultas que no se hallen cedidas en la Florida, comprendidas entre el rio Perdido al occidente del Golfo de Mexico, y los rios Amaruja y el Sn. Juan, desde Popa hasta su desague en el Mar por la parte de Oriente, por el Norte la linea de demarcacion con los Estados Unidos, y al Sur por el Golfo de Mexico, incluyendo las yslas desiertas en la costa. Por tanto, a V. M. rendidamente suplica, que en atencion a lo expuesto, y a las includables ventajas que resultan a la Nacion, se sirva acceder a este solicitud, y mandar al mismo tiempo se comuniquen las correspondientes ordenes a las Autoridades del Pays, prebiniendoles presten al exponente todos los auxilios y proteccion necesaria, asi para la designacion de los terrenos, como para llevar a efecto la empresa en todas sus partes : gracia que espera de la munificencia de V. M. Enterado del contenido de esta exposicion, y atendiendo al distinguido merito de este sugeto, y a su acreditado celo por mi real servicio, como tambien a las ventajas que resultaran al Estado del aumento de poblacion de los citados paises que pretende, he tenido a bien acceder a la gracia que solicita en cuanto no se oponga a las leyes de esos mis reynos, y comunicarlo al mi consejo de Indias para su execucion en Real orden de diez y siete de Diciembre, del referido ano. En su consecuencia os mando y encargo por esta mi Real Cedula, que con arreglo a las leyes que rigen en la materia auxilieis eficazmente la execucion de la espresada gracia, tomando todas las disposiciones que se dirijan a su debido efecto, sin perjuicio de tercero, y para que el espresado Conde de Punonrostro pueda desde luego poner en execucion su designio, conforme en todo con mis beneficus deseos, en obsequio de la agricultura y comercio de dichas posesiones que claman por una poblacion proporcionada a la feracidad de su suelo, y a la defensa y seguridad de las costas ; dando cuenta succesivamente de su progreso ; que asi es mi voluntad, y que de esta cedula se tome razon en la Contaduria General de Indias. Fecha en Palacio, a seis de Febrero, de mil ochocientos diez y ocho.
YO EL REY.
Por mandado del Rey Nuestro Senor : ESTEBAN VAREA."

Y para que conste firmo esta certificacion en Madrid, a quince de Cctubre, de mil

ochocientos y veinte.

(Sig. )

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Caballero de numero de la orden de Carlos 3d, del
Consejo de Estado y Secretario del Despacho de Estado, &c. Certifico que la firma que antecede del Exmo. Sor. Don Antonio Porcel, Secretario
del Despacho de la Gobernacion de Ultramar, es la que acostumbra poner en todos sus escritos. Y para los efectos convenientes doy el presente certificado, firmado de mi mano y sellado con el escudo de mis armas, en Madrid, a veinte y uno de Octubre, de mil ochocientos y veinte.
EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

(TRANSLATION .) Don Antonio Porcel, Knight Pensioner of the Royal and distinguished order of Charles 3d, of the Council of State, and Secretary of State and of Despatch of the Ultramarine government, & c. I certify that, under date of the sixth of February, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, royal letters patent of the same tenor were sent by the late Council of the Indies to the Governor Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies, to the Intendant of the Army and Royal business of the Havana and its district, and to the Governor of the Floridas, that each should do his utmost in his particular department to give effect to the grant made to Brigadier the Count of Punonrostro, of various lands situated in West Florida, of the following tenor :
THE KING.
My Governor and Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies : The Brigadier Count of Punonrostro submitted to me, on the third of November last, what follows: " Sire : The Brigadier Count of Punonrostro, Grandee of Spain of the first class, and your Gentleman of the Bed Chamber in actual attendance, &c., &c., throws himself at your Majesty's Royal feet with the most profound respect, and submits to your Majesty : That, prompted by the desire of promoting, by all possible means, the improvement of the extensive waste and unsettled lands possessed by your Majesty in

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

271

the Americas, which, by their fertility, offer the greatest advantages, not only to your memorialist, but to the state, provided due effect, as is hoped, be given to the noble project formed by your Majesty's memorialist, of converting a small portion of those deserts into the abode of peaceable Christians and industrious inhabitants, who will increase the population of your kingdoms, promote agriculture and commerce, and thereby add immensely to your royal revenues. This enterprise should be conducted by a person who, with a knowledge of the country, would combine the intelligence necessary for comparing the progress made by other nations in similar situations, and
particularly by the United States, which, within a very recent period, have advanced their power to an extraordinary height, and especially in the instance of the Mobile country, adjoining Florida, which, in the last six years, has received such an influx of emigrants, as to be converted from a desert waste into a rich commercial province, highly improved and peopled with more than three hundred thousand souls. A similar
change would be effected in Florida within eighteen or twenty years, by the adoption of judicious arrangements, and by those exertions which your Majesty's memorialist proposes to employ for the promotion of his personal interest, and consequently that of the state. Relying on the merits of the case, and the lively interest felt by your Majesty in the national prosperity, and in the services and sacrifices of your Majesty's memorialist, he humbly requests your Majesty that, taking them into consideration , you would be graciously pleased to grant and cede to him, in full right and property, and the mode and manner required by law, all the waste lands, not heretofore ceded in Florida, lying between the river Perdido, westward of the Gulf of Mexico, and the rivers Amaruja and Saint Johns, from Popa to the point where it empties into the ocean, for the eastern limit ; and, for the northern, the boundary line of the United States ; and, to the south, by the Gulf of Mexico, including the desert islands on the coast. He therefore humbly prays, in consideration of the premises, and the unquestionable advantages to be derived by the nation, your Majesty will be pleased to grant this his petition ; and, thereupon , direct the necessary orders to be given to the local authorities to afford him all due aid and protection , as well in designating the territory referred to, as in giving full effect to the whole enterprise. All which he hopes from the munificence of your Majesty."
Having taken the premises into consideration , and bearing in mind the distinguished merits of the memorialist, and his signal zeal for my royal service, as well as the benefits to be derived by the state from an increase of population in the countries, the cession whereof he has solicited , I have judged fit to grant him the same, in so far as is conformable to the laws of these my kingdoms, and to make it known to my Council of the Indies, for its due execution , by a royal order of the seventeenth of December, in the year aforementioned ; wherefore, I charge and command you, by this, my Royal Cedula, with due observance of the laws to such cases pertaining, to give full and due effect to the said cession, taking all requisite measures for its accomplishment, without injury to any third party, and, to the end, that the said Count of Punonrostro may forthwith carry his plans into execution , in conformity with my beneficent desires in favor of the agriculture and commerce of the said territories, which require a population proportionate to the fertility of the soil, and the defence and security of the coasts, he giving regular accounts of his proceedings, for such is my will ; and that due note be taken of the present Cedula in the office of the Accountant General of the Indies. Dated at the Palace, the sixth of February, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
I, THE KING.
By command of the King our Lord : ESTEVAN VAREA.

And Iconfirm this exemplification, at Madrid, the fifteenth of October, one thousand

eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed)

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Knight of the order of Charles 3d , of the Council of

State, and Secretary of Despatch of State, &c.

I certify that the foregoing signature of his Excellency Don Antonio Porcel, Secre-

tary of Despatch of the Ultra Marine Government, is that which he is accustomed to

put to all his writings. And for the proper purposes, I give the present certificate,

signed by my hand, and sealed with my seal of arms, at Madrid, the twenty-first of

October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed)

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

272

TREATY WITH SPAIN . 1819.

COPIA.
Don Antonio Porcel, Caballero pensionista de la real y distinguida orden de Carlos tercero, del Consejo de Estado y Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de la Goberna cion de Ultramar, & c.
Certifico que con fecha de nueve de Abril, de mil ochocientos diez y ocho, se espidieron por el extinguido Consejo de las Indias reales cedulas de igual tenor al Gobernador Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito, al Intendente de exercito y real hacienda de la Habana y su distrito, y al Gobernador de las Floridas, para que cada uno en la parte que le tocase dispusiera lo conveniente a que tubiese efecto la gracia concedida a Don Pedro de Vargas, de varios terrenos situados en las Floridas ; cuyo contenido es el siguiente.
" EL REY .
Mi Gobernador y Capitan General de la ysla de Cuba y su distrito. Confecha de veinte y cinco de Enero ultimo, me hizo presente Don Pedro Vargas lo que sigueSenor : Don Pedro de Vargas, Caballero de la real orden militar de Alcantara, tesorero general de la real casa y Patrimonio de V. M. con el mas profundo respeto a V. R. M. espone. Que hay una porcion de tierras vacantes y despobladas en el territorio de las Floridas, y deseando que si V. M. se digna premiar sus tales cuales servicios y las pruebas de lealtad que le tiene dadas, sea sin el mas minimo grabamen del Erario, ni perjuicio de tercero como puede en el dia verificarse con algunas tierras de aquel pais a V. M. suplica que por un efecto de su soberana piedad se digne concederle la propiedad del terreno que esta comprehendida en la siguiente demarcacion, asaver. Desde la embocadura del rio Perdido y de su bahia en el Golfo de Mexico, siguiendo la costa del mar, subir por la bahia del Buen Socorro, y de la Mobila, continuar por el Rio de Mobila hasta tocar la linea norte de los Estados Unidos, y baxar por ella con una recta al origin del Rio Perdido y siguiendo por el Rio de la Mobila abaxo y la bahia de su nombre volver por la costa del Mar acia el Oeste con todas las calas entradas e yslas adyacentes que pertenecen a la Espana en la epoca presente hasta llegar a la linea del oeste de los Estados Unidos y volver por la del Norte comprehendiendo todas las tierras baldias que corresponden o puedan corresponden a la Espana y estan en disputa o reclamacion con los Estados Unidos, segun el tenor de los tratados, y asimismo el terreno baldio y no cedido a otro particular que hay entre el Rio Hijuelos en la Florida Oriental y el Rio Santa Lucia tirando una linea desde el nacimiento del uno al del otro y siguiendo por la costa del Golfo de Mexico, desde la embocadura del Rio Hijuelos, hasta la punta de tancha, y doblando esta por la costa del Golfo de Florida hasta la embocadura del Rio Santa Lucia con las yslas y cayos adyacentes."
Enterado del contenido de esta esposicion, y atendiendo al merito de este sugeto y a su acreditado celo por mi real servicio ; como tambien a las ventajas que resultaran al Estado de la poblacion de los citados paises, he tenido a bien acceder a la gracia que solicita, en cuanto no se oponga a las leyes de esos mis reinos, y comunicarlo al mi Consejo de las Indias para su complimiento en real orden de dos de Febrero proximo pasado. En su consequencia os mando y encargo por esta mi real Cedula, que con arreglo a las Leyes que rigen en la materia y sin perjuicio de tercero auxilieis eficazmente la execucion de la expresada gracia, tomando todas las disposiciones que se dirigan a su debido efecto, como tambien al aumento de poblacion, agricul tura y comercio, de las referidas posesiones ; dando cuenta succesivamente de su progreso que asi es mi voluntad , y que de esta Cedula se tome razon en la contaduria general de Indias. Fecha en Palacio, a nueve de Abril, de milochocientos diez y ocho.
YO EL REY. Por mandado del Rey Nuestro Senor:
ESTEVAN VAREA."

Y para que conste firmo esta certificacion en Madrid, a quince de Octubre, de

mil ochocientos y veinte.

(Signed)

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Cabellero de numero de la orden de Carlos 3º . del

Consejo de Estado y Secretario del Despacho de Estado, &c.

Certifico que la firma que antecede del Exmo. Sor. Don Antonio Porcel, Secretario

del Despacho de la Gobernacion de Ultramar, es la que acostumbra poner en todos sus ascritos. Y para los efectos convenientes doy el presente certificado, firmado de

mi mano y sellado con el escudo de mis armas en Madrid, a veinte y uno de Octubre, de mil ochocientos y veinte.

(Signed)

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

TREATY WITH SPAIN. 1819.

273

(TRANSLATION .)
Don Antonio Porcel, Knight Pensioner of the Royal and distinguished order of Charles 3d, of the Council of State, and Secretary of State and of Despatch of the Ultramarine government, &c.
I certify that, under date of the ninth of April, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, royal letters patent of the same tenor were sent by the late Council of the Indies to the Governor Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies, to the Intendant of the Army and Royal business of the Havana and its district, and to the Governor of the Floridas, that each should do his utmost, in his particular department, to give effect to the grant made to Don Pedro de Vargas, of various lands situated in the Floridas, of the following tenor:

THE KING.

My Governor and Captain General of the Island of Cuba and its dependencies : Under date of the twenty-fifth of January last, Don Pedro de Vargas manifested to me as follows : " Sire : Don Pedro de Vargas, Knight of the Royal Order of Alcantara, Treasurer General of the Royal House and patrimony of your Majesty, with the most profound respect, at your royal feet, exposes-That there is a quantity of vacant and unpeopled land in the territory of the Floridas, and desiring that, if your Majesty shall deign to reward his passable services, and the proofs which he has given of his loyalty, it may be without the least burthen on the public treasury, or in prejudice of any third person, as may be done at present by some lands of that country, he beseeches your Majesty that, by an effect of your sovereign goodness, you would deign to grant him the property of the land which lies comprised within the following limits: that is to say ; from the mouth of the river Perdido, and its bay in the Gulf of Mexico, following the sea coast, to ascend by the bay of Buen Socorro, and of Mobile, continuing by the river Mobile, till it touches the northern line of the United States, and descending by that in a right line to the source of the river Perdido, and following the river Mobile in its lower part, and the bay of that name, returns by the sea coast towards the west ; comprehending all the creeks, entries, and islands, adjacent, which may belong to Spain at the present time, till it reaches the west line of the United States, then, returning by their northern line, comprehending all the waste lands which belong, or may belong, to Spain, and are in dispute or reclamation with the United States, according to the tenor of the treaties, and, also, all the waste land not ceded to any other individual, which is between the river Hijuelos, in East Florida, and the river St. Lucia, drawing a linefrom the source of one river to the source of the other, and following by the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, from the mouth of the Hijuelos to the point of Tancha, and doubling this, by the coast of the Gulf of Florida, to the mouth of the river Saint Lucia, with the islands and keys adjacent."
Considering the contents of this exposition, and attending to the merit of the individual, and his accredited zeal for my royal service ; as also to the advantages to result to the state from peopling the said countries, I have thought proper to accede to the favor which he solicits, in as far as it be not opposed to the laws of these my kingdoms, and communicated it to my Council of the Indies, for its accomplishment, in a royal order of the second of February last. Consequently, I command and charge you, by this my royal cedula, that, conforming to the laws which regulate in these affairs, and without prejudice to third persons, that you efficaciously aid the execution of the said grant, taking all the measures which may conduce to its due effect, as also to the augmentation of the population, agriculture, and commerce ofthe aforesaid possessions, giving account, from time to time, of the progress made, for this is my will ; and that due notice shall be taken of this cedula, in the office ofthe Accountant
General of the Indies. Dated at the Palace, the ninth of April, one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
I, THE KING. By command of the King, our Lord :
ESTEVAN VAREA.

I confirm this exemplification, at Madrid, the fifteenth of October, one thousand

eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed)

ANTONIO PORCEL.

Don Evaristo Perez de Castro, Knight of the Order of Charles 3d, of the Council of

State, and Secretary of Despatch of State, & c.

I certify that the foregoing signature of his Excellency, Don Antonio Porcel, Secre-

tary of Despatch of the Ultra-Marine Government, is that which he is accustomed to

put to all his writings. And , for the proper purposes, I give the present certificate,

signed by my hand, and sealed with my seal of arms, at Madrid, the twenty-first day of October, one thousand eight hundred and twenty.

(Signed)

EVARISTO PEREZ DE CASTRO.

VOL. VIII. 35

DECISION

June 18 , 1822.

Of the Commissioners under the 6th Article of the Treaty of Ghent, done at Utica, in the State of New- York, 18th June, 1822.

Ante, p. 221 . Boundary of United States to be estab-
lished .

THE undersigned Commissioners, appointed, sworn , and authorized, in virtue of the 6th article of the treaty of peace and amity between his Britannic Majesty and the United States of America, concluded at Ghent, on the 24th of December, 1814, impartially to examine, and, by a report or declaration , under their hands and seals, to designate " that portion of the boundary of the United States from the point where the 45th degree of north latitude strikes the river Iroquois, or Cataraqui, along the middle of said river into Lake Ontario, through the middle of said lake until it strikes the communication , by water, between

that lake and Lake Erie ; thence, along the middle of said communication, into Lake Erie, through the middle of said lake, until it arrives at the water communication into Lake Huron ; thence, through the middle of said water communication, into Lake Huron ; thence, through the middle of said lake, to the water communication between that lake

Ante, page 80.

and Lake Superior ;" and to " decide to which of the two contracting parties the several islands, lying within the said rivers, lakes, and water communications, do respectively belong, in conformity with the true intent ofthe treaty of 1783 ;" do decide and declare, that the following

described line, ( which is more clearly indicated on a series of maps accompanying this report, exhibiting correct surveys and delineations of

all the rivers, lakes, water communications, and islands, embraced by the 6th article of the treaty of Ghent, by a black line shaded on the British side with red, and on the American side with blue ; and each

sheet of which series of maps is identified by a certificate, subscribed

by the Commissioners, and by the two principal surveyors employed by

them,) is the true boundary intended by the two before-mentioned treaties ; that is to say :

Description of the boundary of the United States.

Beginning at a stone monument, erected by Andrew Ellicot, Esquire, in the year 1817 , on the south bank, or shore, of the said river Iroquois, or Cataraqui, (now called the St. Lawrence, ) which monument bears south 74° 45' west, and is eighteen hundred and forty yards distant from the stone church in the Indian village of St. Regis, and indicates the point at which the 45th parallel of north latitude strikes the said river ; thence, running north 35° 45 west, into the river, on a line at right angles with the southern shore, to a point one hundred yards south of the opposite island, called Cornwall island ; thence, turning westerly,

and passing around the southern and western sides of said island , keeping one hundred yards distant therefrom , and following the curvatures of its shores, to a point opposite to the north-west corner, or angle, of said island ; thence, to and along the middle of the main river , until it approachesthe eastern extremity of Barnhart's island ; thence, norther! ",

along the channel which divides the last-mentioned island frort he 274)

DECISION UNDER THE TREATY OF GHENT. 1822.

275

Canada shore, keeping one hundred yards distant from the island, until Description of it approaches Sheik's island ; thence, along the middle of the strait tohfethbeouUnndiatreyd which divides Barnhart's and Sheik's islands, to the channel called the States. Long Sault, which separates the two last mentioned islands from the Lower Long Sault Island ; thence, westerly, (crossing the centre of the last mentioned channel ) until it approaches within one hundred yards of the north shore of the Lower Sault Island ; thence, up the north branch of the river, keeping to the north of, and near, the Lower Sault Island, and also north of, and near, the Upper Sault , sometimes called Baxter's) Island, and south of the two small islands , marked on the map A and B, to the western extremity of the Upper Sault, or Baxter's island ; thence, passing between the two islands called the Cats, to the middle of the river above ; thence, along the middle of the river, keeping to the north of the small islands marked C and D ; and north also of Chrystler's Island and of the small island next above it, marked E, until it approaches the north-east angle of Goose Neck Island ; thence, along the passage which divides the last mentioned Island from the Canada shore, keeping one hundred yards from the island, to the upper end of the same ; thence, south of, and near, the two small islands called the Nut Islands ; thence north of, and near, the island marked F, and also of the island called Dry or Smuggler's Island ; thence, passing between the islands marked G and H , to the north of the island called Isle au Rapid Platt ; thence, along the north side of the last mentioned island, keeping one hundred yards from the shore to the upper end thereof; thence, along the middle of the river, keeping to the south of, and near, the islands called Cousson (or Tussin) and Presque Isle ; thence up the river, keeping north of, and near, the several Gallop Isles, numbered on the map 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, and also of Tick , Tibbit's, and Chimney Islands ; and south of, and near, the Gallop Isles, numbered 11 , 12 , and 13, and also of Duck, Drummond, and Sheep Islands ; thence, along the middle of the river, passing north of island No. 14 , south of 15, and 16, north of 17 ; south of 18, 19, 20, 21 , 22, 23, 24, 25, and 28, and north of 26, and 27 ; thence, along the middle of the river, north of Gull Island and of the islands No. 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, Bluff Island, and No. 39, 44, and 45, and to the south of No. 30, 31 , 36, Grenadier Island, and No. 37, 38, 40, 41 , 42, 43, 46, 47, and 48, until it approaches the east end of Well's Island ; thence, to the north of Well's Island , and along the strait which divides it from Rowe's Island , keeping to the north of the small islands No. 51 , 52, 54, 58 , 59, and 61 , and to the south of the small islands numbered and marked 49 , 50, 53, 55 , 57, 60 , and X , until it approaches the north-east point of Grindstone Island : thence to the north of Grindstone Island, and keeping to the north also of the small islands, No. 63, 65, 67, 68, 70, 72, 73, 74 , 75, 76, 77, and 78 , and to the south of No. 62, 64, 66, 69, and 71 , until it approaches the southern point of Hickory Island ; thence, passing to the south of Hickory Island, and of the two small islands lying near its southern extremity, numbered 79 and 80 ; thence, to the south of Grand or Long Island , keeping near its southern shore, and passing to the north of Carlton Island, until it arrives opposite to the south-western point of said Grand Island in Lake Ontario ; thence, passing to the north of Grenadier, Fox, Stony, and the Gallop Islands in Lake Ontario, and to the south of, and near, the islands called the Ducks, to the middle of the said lake ; thence, westerly, along the middle of said lake , to a point opposite the mouth of the Niagara river ; thence, to and up the middle of the said river, to the Great Falls ; thence, up the Falls, through the point of the Horse Shoe , keeping to the west of Iris or Goat Island, and of the group of small islands at its head, and following the bends of the river so as to enter the strait be-

276

DECISION UNDER THE TREATY OF GHENT . 1822.

Description of the boundary of the United States

tween Navy and Grand Islands ; thence, along the middle of said strait, to the head of Navy Island : thence, to the west and south of, and near to, Grand and Beaver Islands, and to the west of Strawberry, Squaw, and Bird, Islands, to Lake Erie ; thence, southerly and westerly, along the middle of Lake Erie, in a direction to enter the passage immedi-

ately south of Middle Island , being one of the eastermost of the group

of islands lying in the western part of said lake ; thence, along the said

passage, proceeding to the north of Cunningham's Island, of the three Bass Islands, and of the Western Sister, and to the south of the islands

called the Hen and Chickens, and of the Eastern and Middle Sisters ; thence, to the middle of the mouth of the Detroit river, in a direction to enter the channel which divides Bois-blanc and Sugar Islands ; thence,

up the said channel to the west of Bois-blanc Island, and to the east of

Sugar, Fox, and Stony, Islands, until it approaches Fighting or Great Turkey Island ; thence, along the western side, and near the shore of said last mentioned island, to the middle of the river above the same ;

thence, along the middle of said river, keeping to the south-east of, and near, Hog Island, and to the north-west of and near the island called

Isle a la Pêche, to Lake St. Clair ; thence, through the middle of said

lake, in a direction to enter that mouth or channel of the river St. Clair,

which is usually denominated the Old Ship Channel ; thence, along the

middle of said channel , between Squirrel Island on the south-east, and

Herson's Island on the north-west, to the upper end of the last men-

tioned island, which is nearly opposite to Point au Chênes, on the Ame-

rican shore ; thence, along the middle of the river St. Clair, keeping to the west of, and near, the Islands called Belle Riviere Isle, and the Isle

aux Cerfs, to Lake Huron ; thence, through the middle of Lake Huron, in a direction to enter the strait or passage between Drummond's Island

on the west, and the little Manitou Island on the east ; thence, through

the middle of the passage which divides the two last mentioned islands ; thence, turning northerly and westerly, around the eastern and northern

shores of Drummond's Island, and proceeding in a direction to enter

the passage between the island of St. Joseph's and the American shore,

passing to the north of the intermediate islands No. 61 , 11 , 10 , 12, 9, 6, 4, and 2, and to the south of those numbered 15 , 13 , 5, and 1 .

Thence, up the said last mentioned passage, keeping near to the

island St. Joseph's, and passing to the north and east of Isle a la Crosse, and of the small islands numbered 16, 17, 18 , 19 , and 20, and to the

south and west of those numbered 21 , 22, and 23, until it strikes a line

(drawn on the map with black ink and shaded on one side of the point

of intersection with blue and on the other with red ,) passing across the river at the head of St. Joseph's Island , and at the foot of the Neebish

Rapids, which line denotes the termination of the boundary directed

to be run by the 6th article of the Treaty of Ghent.

Islands.
Ante, p. 81. Ante, p. 221.

And the said Commissioners do further decide and declare , that all the islands lying in the rivers, lakes, and water communications, between the before described boundary line and the adjacent shores of Upper Canada do, and each of them does, belong to his Britannic Majesty, and that all the islands lying in the rivers, lakes, and water communications, between the said boundary line and the adjacent shores of the United States, or their territories, do, and each of them does, belong to the United States of America, in conformity with the true intent of the 2nd article of the said treaty of 1783 , and of the 6th article of the Treaty of Ghent.

In faith whereof, we, the Commissioners aforesaid, have signed this declaration, and thereunto affixed our seals.

DECISION UNDER THE TREATY OF GHENT. 1822.

277

Done, in quadruplicate, at Utica, in the State of New-York, in the United States of America, this eighteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-two.

(Signed) (Signed)

PETER B. PORTER, ANTH. BARCLAY,

(L. S.) (L. S.)

Y

CONVENTION OF NAVIGATION AND COMMERCE

June 24 , 1822. Ratification, Feb. 12, 1823. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., Feb. 12, 1823. Preamble.
John Quincy Adams and Ba ron de Neuville, negotiators.
Exchange of full powers.

Between the United States of America and his Majesty the
King of France and Navarre. (a)
THE United States of America and His Majesty the King of France and Navarre, being desirous of settling the relations of navigation and commerce between their respective nations, by a temporary convention reciprocally beneficial and satisfactory, and thereby of leading to a more permanent and comprehensive arrangement, have respectively furnished their full powers in manner following, that is to say : The President of the United States to JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, their Secretary of State : and His Most Christian Majesty to the Baron HYDE DE NEUVILLE , Knight of the Royal and Military Order of St. Louis , Commander of the Legion of Honor, Grand Cross of the Royal American Order of Isabella the Catholic, his Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near the United States ; who, after exchanging their full powers, have agreed on the following articles :

ARTICLE 1st

Articles, & c. of the U. S., imported in American ves.
sels, to pay in France, & c.

Articles ofthe growth, produce, or manufacture, of the United States, imported into France in vessels of the United States, shall pay an additional duty, not exceeding twenty francs per ton of merchandize, over and above the duties paid on the like articles, also of the growth, produce, or manufacture, of the United States, when imported in French vessels.
ARTICLE 2.

Articles, & c. of France, imported inFrench vessels, to pay in the United States, & c.

Articles of the growth, produce, or manufacture, of France, imported into the United States in French vessels, shall pay an additional duty, not exceeding three dollars and seventy-five cents per ton of merchandize, over and above the duties collected upon the like articles, also of the growth, produce, or manufacture, of France, when imported in vessels of the United States.

ARTICLE 3.

Goods for tran-
sit or re-exportation , not to pay daudtiyscirniemiitnhaetring country .

No discriminating duty shall be levied upon the productions of the soil or industry of France, imported in French bottoms into the ports of the United States for transit or re-exportation : nor shall any such duties be levied upon the productions of the soil or industry of the
United States, imported in vessels of the United States into the ports of France for transit or re-exportation.

ARTICLE 4.

Quantities
composing the ton.

The following quantities shall be considered as forming the ton of merchandize for each of the articles hereinafter specified :
Wines four 61 gallon hogsheads, or 244 gallons of 231 cubic inches, American measure.
Brandies, and all other liquids, 244 gallons. Silks and all other dry goods, and all other articles usually subject to measurement, forty-two cubic feet, French, in France, and fifty cubic feet American measure, in the United States.

Cotton, 804 lb. avoirdupois, or 365 kilogrammes.
(a) See notes of the treaties and conventions between the United States and France, ante, page 6. (278)

CONVENTION DE NAVIGATION ET DE COMMERCE
Entre sa Majesté le Roi de France et de Navarre et les Etats Unis d'Amérique.
SA Majesté le Roi de France et de Navarre et les Etats Unis d'Amérique, désirant règler les relations de navigation et de commerce entre leurs nations respectives par une convention temporaire réciproquement avantageuse et satisfaisante, et arriver ainsi à un arrangement plus étendu et durable, ont respectivement donné leur pleins-pouvoirs, savoir : Sa Majesté Très Chrétienne au Baron HYDE DE NEUVILLE , Chevalier de l'ordre Royale et Militaire de St. Louis, Commandeur de la Légion d'Honneur, Grand Croix de l'ordre Royale Américain d'Isabelle la Catholique, son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près les Etats Unis ; et le Président des Etats Unis , à JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, leur Sécrétaire d'Etat ; lesquels, après avoir échangé leurs pleinspouvoirs, sont convenus des articles suivans :
ARTICLE 1er
Les produits naturels ou manufacturés des Etats Unis importés en France sur batimens des Etats Unis payeront un droit additionel qui n'excèdera point vingt francs par tonneau de marchandise, en sus des droits payés sur les mêmes produits naturels ou manufacturés des Etats Unis quand ils sont importés par navires Français.
ARTICLE 2.
Les produits naturels ou manufacturés de France importés aux Etats Unis sur batimens Français payeront un droit additionel qui n'excèdera point trois dollars soixante-quinze cents par tonneau de marchandise, en sus des droits payés sur les mêmes produits naturels ou manufac turés de France quand ils sont importés par navires des Etats Unis.
ARTICLE 3.
Aucun droit différentiel ne sera levé sur les produits du sol et de l'industrié de France qui seront importés par navires Français dans les ports des Etats Unis pour transit ou ré-exportation : Il en sera de même dans les ports de France pour les produits du sol et de l'industrie de l'Union qui seront importés pour transit ou ré-exportation par navires des Etats Unis.
ARTICLE 4. Les quantités suivantes seront considerées comme formant le tonneau de marchandise pour chacun des articles à ci-après spécifiés : Vins-quatre barriques de 61 gallons chaque, ou 244 gallons de 231 pouces cubes (mesure Américaine. ) Eaux de vie, et tous autres liquides, 244 gallons. Soieries et toutes autres marchandises sèches ainsi que tous autres articles généralement soumis au mésurage quarante deux pieds cubes, mesure Française, en France ; et cinquante pieds cubes, mesure Américaine, aux Etats Unis. Cotons 804 lb. avoir du poids ou 365 kilogrammes.
(279)

280

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1822.

Tobacco, 1,600 lbs. avoirdupois, or 725 kilogrammes. Ashes, pot and pearl, 2,240 lb. avoirdupois, or 1,016 kilogs. Rice, 1,600 lb. avoirdupois, or 725 kilogrammes ; and for all weighable articles, not specified, 2,240 lb. avoirdupois, or 1,016 kilogrammes.

ARTICLE 5.

Duties of ton-
nage, light monexecye,e&dci.,n not to France, five francs per ton on American vessels, &c.

The duties of tonnage, light-money, pilotage, port charges, brokerage, and all other duties upon foreign shipping, over and above those paid by the national shipping in the two countries respectively, other than those specified in articles 1 and 2 of the present convention, shall not exceed in France, for vessels of the United States, five francs per ton of the vessel's American register ; nor for vessels of France in the United States, ninety-four cents per ton of the vessel's French passport.

ARTICLE 6.

Consuls and

The contracting parties, wishing to favor their mutual commerce,

vice consuls of teihteheorthneart,iomna, yin
cause the arrest of deserters,
and detain them for 3 months.

by affording in their ports every necessary assistance to their respective vessels, have agreed that the consuls and vice consuls may cause to be arrested the sailors, being part of the crews of the vessels of their respective nations, who shall have deserted from the said vessels, in order to send them back and transport them out of the country. For
which purpose the said consuls and vice consuls shall address themselves

to the courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said

deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the

vessel, or ship's roll, or other official documents, that those men were

part of the said crews ; and on this demand, so proved, (saving however

where the contrary is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused ; and

there shall be given all aid and assistance to the said consuls and vice

consuls for the search, seizure, and arrest, of the said deserters, who

shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the country, at their

request and expense, until they shall have found an opportunity of send-

ing them back. But if they be not sent back within three months, to

be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

ARTICLE 7.

Convention to The present temporary convention shall be in force for two years

be in years

fforrocme

two 1st

October, 1822.

from the first day of October next, and even after the expiration of that term, until the conclusion of a definitive treaty, or until one of the parties shall have declared its intention to renounce it ; which declaration shall be made at least six months before hand.

Extra duties at And in case the present arrangement should remain without such

the end of two years to be di-
minished by one fourth, and so from year to year, & c.

declaration of its discontinuance by either party, the extra duties speci-
fied in the 1st and 2d articles, shall , from the expiration of the said two years, be, on both sides, diminished by one-fourth of their whole amount, and, afterwards, by one-fourth of the said amount from year to year, so long as neither party shall have declared the intention of renouncing it as above stated.

ARTICLE 8.

Convention to
be ratified with in one year.

The present convention shall be ratified on both sides, and the ratifications shall be exchanged within one year from the date hereof, or sooner, if possible. But the execution of the said convention shall commence in both countries on the 1st of October next, and shall be effective, even in case of non-ratification , for all such vessels as may have

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1822 .

281

Tabacs-1,600 lb. avoir du poids ou 725 kilogrammes. Potasse et Perlasse 2240 lb. avoir du poids ou 1016 kilogrammes. Riz-1600 lb. avoir du poids ou 725 kilog. : Et pour tous les articles non spécifiés et qui se pèsent 2240 lb. avoir du poids ou 1016 kilogrammes.
ARTICLE 5.
Les droits de tonnage, de phare, de pilotage, droits de port, courtage, et tous autres droits sur la navigation etrangère en sus de ceux payés respectivement par la navigation nationale dans les deux Pays , autres que ceux spécifiés dans les articles 1 et 2 de la présente convention, n'excèderont pas, en France, pour les batimens des Etats Unis, cinq francs par tonneau d'après le régistre Américain du batiment, ni pour les batimens Français aux Etats Unis, quatre vingt quatorze cents par tonneau d'après le passeport Français du batiment.
ARTICLE 6.
Les parties contractantes désirant favoriser mutuellement leur commerce, en donnant dans leurs ports toute assistance nécessaire à leurs batimens respectifs, sont convenues que les consuls et vice-consuls pourront faire arrêter les matelôts faisant partie des équipages des batimens de leurs nations respectives qui auraient deserté des dits batimens pour les renvoyer et faire transporter hors du pays. Auquel effets les dits consuls et vice-consuls s'adresseront aux tribunaux, juges et officiers compètens, et leur feront, par écrit, la demande des dits déserteurs, en justifiant par l'exhibition des registres du batiment ou rôle d'equipage ou autres documens officiéls que ces hommes faisaient partie des dits equipages. Et sur cette demande ainsi justifiée, sauf toutefois la preuve contraire, l'extradition ne pourra être refusée, et il sera donné toute aide et assistance aux dits consuls et vice-consuls pour la recherche, saisie et arrestation des susdits déserteurs, lesquels seront même détenus et gardés dans les prisons du pays à leur réquisition, et à leurs frais, jusqu'à ce qu'ils ayent trouvé moyen de les renvoyer ; mais s'ils n'etaient renvoyés dans le délai de trois mois à compter du jour de leur arrêt, ils eront élargis et ne pourront plus être arrêtés pour la même cause.

ARTICLE 7.

La présente convention temporaire aura son plein effet pendant deux ans à partir du ler. Octobre prochain, et même après l'expiration de ce terme, elle sera maintenue jusqu'à la conclusion d'un traité définitif, ou jusqu'à ce que l'une des parties ait déclaré à l'autre son intention d'y renoncer, laquelle déclaration devra être faite au moins six mois d'avance.
Et dans le cas où la présente convention viendrait à continuer, sans cette déclaration par l'une ou l'autre partié, les droits extraordinaires specifiés dans les 1er et 2 articles, seront à l'expiration des dits deux années, diminuées de part et d'autre d'un quart de leur montant, et successivement d'un quart du dit montant d'année en année, aussi longtems qu'aucune des parties n'aura déclaré son intention d'y renoncer, ainsi qu'ils est dit ci-dessus.

ARTICLE S.

La présente convention sera ratifiée de part et d'autre , et les ratifications seront échangés dans l'espace d'une année à compter de ce jour, ou plutôt si faire se peut. Mais l'éxécution de la dite convention commencera dans les deux pays le premier Octobre prochain , et aura son effet, dans le cas même de non-ratification, pour tous batimens partis

VOL. VIII. 36

Y2

282

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

sailed bona fide for the ports of either nation, in the confidence of its being in force.
In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present convention , and have thereto affixed their seals, at the city of Washington, this 24th day of June, A. D. 1822.
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS , (L. S.) G. HYDE DE NEUVILLE. (L. S.)

Separate article.

SEPARATE ARTICLE. The extra duties levied on either side before the present day, by virtue of the act of Congress of 15th May, 1820 , and of the ordinance of 26th July of the same year, and others confirmative thereof, and which have not already been paid back, shall be refunded.
Signed and sealed as above, this 24th day of June , 1822. JOHN QUINCY ADAMS , (L. s.) G. HYDE DE NEUVILLE. (L. s.)

July 12, 1822.

Ratified. Ex-
change of ratifications, Jan. 10, 1823. The U. S. and Great Britain agree to refer certain differences to the
Emperor of Russia, in pursuance of the

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN .
In the name of the most holy and indivisible Trinity : THE President of the United States of America, and His Majesty the King ofthe United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, having agreed, in pursuance of the fifth article of the Convention concluded at London on the 20th day of October, 1818, to refer the differences which had arisen between the two governments, upon the true construction and meaning of the first article of the Treaty of Peace and Amity, con-

5th article ofthe convention of 20th Oct. 1818 ; ante, p. 249.
His Majesty's award.
U. S. entitled to indemnification for slaves, & c. which were in the posses
sion of the Bri-
atiwslai y, abnyd tcahrerime.d To be indem-
nified for certain other slaves.

cluded at Ghent on the 24th day of December, 1814, to the friendly arbitration of His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, mutually engaging to consider his decision as final and conclusive. And his said Imperial Majesty having, after due consideration , given his decision upon these differences in the following terms, to wit :
"That the United States of America are entitled to claim from Great
Britain a just indemnification for all private property, which the British forces may have carried away ; and as the question relates to slaves more especially, for all the slaves that the British forces may have car ried away from places and territories of which the Treaty stipulates the restitution, in quitting these same places and territories.
" That the United States are entitled to consider as having been so carried away, all such slaves as may have been transferred from the above-mentioned territories to British vessels within the waters of the

For American slaves, carried away from ter. ritories not stipulated to be restored. no indemnification to be claimed.
His Imperial

said territories, and who for this reason may not have been restored. " But that if there should be any American slaves who were carried
away from territories of which the first article of the Treaty of Ghent has not stipulated the restitution to the United States, the United States are not entitled to claim an indemnification for the said slaves."
Now for the purpose of carrying into effect this award of His Imperial Majesty, as arbitrator, his good offices have been farther invoked to

Majesty's good assist in framing such Convention or Articles of Agreement between

offices have been invoked

the United States of America and His Britannic Majesty, as shall pro-

toassist infram. vide the mode of ascertaining and determining the value of slaves and

ing convention. of other private property, which may have been carried away in contra-

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

283

bona fide pour les ports de l'une ou l'autre nation, dans la confiance qu'elle était en vigueur.
En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé la présente convention, et y ont apposé leurs sceaux, en la ville de Washington, ce 24me jour de Juin, de l'an de notre seigneur, 1822. G. HYDE DE NEUVILLE, (L. s. ) JOHN QUINCY ADAMS . (L. S.)

ARTICLE SÉPARÉ.
Les droits extraordinaires levés de part et d'autre jusqu'à ce jour, en vertu de l'acte du Congrès du 15 Mai, 1820, et de l'ordonnance du 26 Juillet de la même année et autres la confirmant, qui n'ont point déjà été remboursés, seront restitués.
Signé et scellé comme ci-dessus ce 24me jour de Juin, 1822.
G. HYDE DE NEUVILLE, ( L. s.) JOHN QUINCY ADAMS. (L. S.

TRAITE À GRANDE BRETAGNE .
Au nom de la très-sainte & indivisible Trinité : Le Président des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, & Sa Majesté le Roi du Royaume uni de la Grande Bretagne & de l'Irlande, ayant décidé d'un commun accord, en conséquence de l'article V. de la Convention conclue à Londres le 20 Octobre, 1818, que les différends qui se sont élevés entre les deux gouvernemens sur la construction & le vrai sens du 1r article du Traité de paix & d'amitié, conclu à Gand le 24 Décembre, 1814, seraient déférés à l'arbitrage amical de Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes les Russies ; s'étant en outre engagés réciproquement à regarder sa décision comme finale & définitive ; & Sa Majesté Impériale après mûre considération, ayant émis cette décision dans les termes suivans. "Que les Etats-Unis d'Amérique sont en droit de réclamer de la Grand Bretagne une juste indemnité pour toutes les propriétés particulières que les forces Britanniques auroient emportées ; & comme il s'agit plus spécialement d'esclaves, pour tous les esclaves que les forces Britanniques auroient emmenés des lieux & territoires dont le traité stipule la restitution, en quittant ces mêmes lieux & territoires. " Que les Etats-Unis sont en droit de regarder comme emmenés tous ceux de ces esclaves qui, des territoires indiqués cidessus auroient été transportés à bord de vaisseaux Britanniques mouillés dans les eaux des dits territoires, & qui par ce motif n'auroient pas été restitues. " Mais que s'il y a des esclaves Américains emmenés de territoires dont l'article 1r du traité de Gand n'a pas stipulé la restitution aux Etats-Unis, les Etats-Unis ne sont pas en droit de réclamer une indemnité pour les dits esclaves." Comme il s'agit à présent de mettre cette sentence arbitrale à exécu ion, les bons offices de Sa Majesté Impériale ont été encore invoqués, afin qu'une convention arrêtée entre les Etats Unis & Sa Majesté BriLannique stipulat les articles d'un accord propre à établir d'une part, le mode à suivre pour fixer & déterminer la valeur des esclaves ou autres propriétés privées qui auroient été emmenés en contravention au Traité

284

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

vention of the Treaty of Ghent, and for which indemnification is to be

made to the citizens of the United States, in virtue of His Imperial

Majesty's said award, and shall secure compensation to the sufferers for

their losses, so ascertained and determined. And His Imperial Majesty has consented to lend his mediation for the above purpose, and has con-

Russian plenipotentiaries,
CChoaurnltesNeRsosbele-rt
rode, and John Count Capodis trias.

stituted and appointed CHARLES ROBERT COUNT NESSELRODE , His Imperial Majesty's Privy Counsellor , Member of the Council of State, Secretary of State directing the Imperial Department of Foreign Affairs, Chamberlain, Knight of the order of Saint Alexander Nevsky, Grand Cross of the order of Saint Vladimir of the first class, Knight of that of the White Eagle of Poland , Grand Cross of the order of St. Stephen

of Hungary, of the Black and of the Red Eagle of Prussia, of the

Legion of Honour of France, of Charles III. of Spain, of St. Ferdinand and of Merit of Naples, of the Annunciation of Sardinia, of the Polar

Star of Sweden, of the Elephant of Denmark, of the Golden Eagle of

Wirtemberg, of Fidelity of Baden, of St. Constantine of Parma, and

of Guelph of Hanovre ; and JOHN COUNT CAPODISTRIAS, His Imperial Majesty's Privy Counsellor, and Secretary of State, Knight of the order of St. Alexander Nevsky, Grand Cross of the order of St. Vladimir of

the first class, Knight of that of the White Eagle of Poland, Grand

Cross of the order of St. Stephen of Hungary, of the Black and of the

Red Eagle of Prussia, of the Legion of Honour of France, of Charles

III. of Spain, of St. Ferdinand and of Merit of Naples, of St. Maurice and of St. Lazarus of Sardinia, of the Elephant of Denmark, of Fidelity

and of the Lion of Zahringen of Baden, Burgher of the Canton of

Vaud, and also of the Canton and of the Republic of Geneva, as his

Plenipotentiaries to treat, adjust, and conclude, such articles of Agreement as may tend to the attainment of the above mentioned end, with

the Plenipotentiaries of the United States and of His Britannic Majesty; that is to say on the part of the President of the United States, with

Plenipotentiary of the United States, Henry Middleton .
Plenipotentiary of Great Britain, Bagot.

the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, HENRY Middleton, a citizen of the said United States, and their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias : and on the part of His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, the Right Honourable Sir CHARLES BAGOT , one of His Majesty's most Honourable Privy Council , Knight Grand Cross of the most honourable order of the Bath, and His Majesty's

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to his Majesty the

Emperor of all the Russias : And the said Plenipotentiaries, after a Full powers reciprocal communication of their respective full powers, found in good communicated. and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Arbitrators and commis. Bioners to be
appointed ; to meet as a board
in the city of Washington, & c.

For the purpose of ascertaining and determining the amount of indemnification which may be due to citizens of the United States under the decision of his Imperial Majesty, two Commissioners and two Arbitrators shall be appointed in the manner following ; that is to say : one commissioner and one arbitrator shall be nominated and appointed by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof: and one commissioner and one arbi-

trator shall be appointed by his Britannic Majesty. And the two commissioners and two arbitrators, thus appointed , shall meet and hold their

sittings as a Board in the city of Washington. They shall have power o appoint a Secretary, and before proceeding to the other business of

the commission , they shall, respectively, take the following oath (or

Oath or affirm stionto be taken
in presence of sach other

affirmation) in the presence of each other. Which oath or affirmation, being so taken, and duly attested, shall be entered on the record of their proceedings ; that is to say : " I, A B, one of the commissioners (or
arbitrators, as the case may be, ) appointed in pursuance the conven-

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

285

de Gand, et pour lesquels les citoyens des Etats-Unis auraient droit de réclamer une indemnité en vertu de la décision cidessus mentionnée de
Sa Majesté Impériale ; de l'autre à assurer un dédommagement aux individus qui ont supporté les pertes qu'il s'agit de vérifier et d'évaluer. Sa Majesté Impériale a consenti à prêter sa médiation pour le dit objet, & a fondé & nommé le Sieur CHARLES ROBERT COMTE DE NESSEL-
RODE, Son Conseiller privé, Membre du Conseil d'Etat, Secrétaire d'Etat dirigeant le Ministère des Affaires Etrangérès, Chambellan actuel, Chevalier de l'ordre de St. Alexandre Nevsky, Grand Croix de l'ordre de St. Wladimir de la 1 re classe, Chevalier de celui de l'Aigle Blanc de Pologne, Grand Croix de l'ordre de St. Etienne de Hongrie, de l'Aigle Noir & de l'Aigle Rouge de Prusse, de la Légion d'Honneur de France, de Charles III. d'Espagne, de St. Ferdinand & du Mérite de Naples, de l'Annonciade de Sardaigne, de l'Etoile Polaire de Suède, de l'Eléphant de Dannemarc, de l'Aigle d'or de Würtemberg, de la Fidélité de Bade, de St. Constantin de Parme, & des Guelfes de Hanovre ; & le Sieur JEAN COMTE DE CAPODISTRIAS, Son Conseiller privé & Secrétaire d'Etat, Chevalier l'ordre de St. Alexandre Nevsky, Grand 'Croix de l'ordre de St. Wladimir de la 1 re classe, Chevalier de celui de l'Aigle Blanc de Pologne, Grand ' Croix de l'ordre de St. Etienne de Hongrie, de l'Aigle Noir & de l'Aigle Rouge de Prusse, de la Légion d'Honneur de France, de Charles III. d'Espagne, de St. Ferdinand & du Mérite de Naples, des Sts. Maurice & Lazare de Sardaigne, de l'Éléphant de Dannemarc, de la Fidélité et du Lion de Zahringen de Bade, Bourgeois du Canton de Vaud , ainsi que du Canton & de la République de Genève, pour ses Plénipotentiaires à l'effet de négocier, règler & conclure tels articles d'un accord qui pourraient faire atteindre la fin indiquée plus haut, conjointement avec les Plénipotentiaires des Etats-Unis & de Sa Majesté Britannique, savoir, de la part du Président des Etats-Unis, de l'avis & du consentement de leur Sénat, le Sieur HENRY MIDDLETON, citoyen des dits Etats-Unis & leur Envoyé Extraordinaire & Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Impériale, & de la part de Sa Majesté le Roi du Royaume Uni de la Grande Bretagne & de l'Irlande, le très honorable Sir CHARLES Bagot, l'un des membres du très honorable Conseil privé de Sa Majesté, Chevalier Grand ' Croix du très honorable ordre du Bain & son Ambassadeur Extraordinaire & Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Impériale : lesquels Plénipotentiaires, après s'etre réciproquement communiqué leurs plein pouvoirs respectifs , trouvés en bonne & due forme, sont convenus des articles suivants :

ARTICLE I.
Pour vérifier & déterminer le montant de l'indemnité qui pourra être
dûe aux citoyens des Etats Unis par suite de la décision de sa Majesté Imperiale, deux commissaires & deux arbitres seront nommés de la manière suivante, savoir : Un commissaire & un arbitre seront nommes & accrédités, par le Président des Etats Unis, de l'avis & du consentement de leur Sénat ; l'autre commissaire & l'autre arbitre seront nommés par Sa Majesté Britannique. Les deux commissaires & les deux arbitres, ainsi nommés, se réuniront en Conseil, & tiendront leurs séances dans la ville de Washington. Ils auront le pouvoir de choisir un Secrétaire, & avant de procéder au travail de la commission , ils devront prêter respectivement & en présence les uns des autres , le serment ou l'affirmation qui suit, & ce serment ou affirmation prêté & formellement attesté fera partie du protocole de leurs actes & sera conçu ainsi qu'il suit : " Moi A B, l'un des commissaires (ou arbitres, suivant le cas,) nommés en exécution de la convention conclue à St. Péters-

286

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

Vacancies to be filled up in the manner of the original ap-
pointment.

tion

concluded

at

St.

Petersburg

on

the

30th 12th

June. day of July,

one

thousand

eight

hundred and twenty-two, between his Majesty the Emperor of all the

Russias, the United States of America, and his Britannic Majesty, do

solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will diligently, impartially, and care-

fully, examine, and, to the best of my judgment, according to justice

and equity, decide all matters submitted to me as commissioner (or ar-

bitrator, as the case may be, ) under the said convention."

All vacancies occurring by death or otherwise shall be filled up in the manner of the original appointment, and the new commissioners or arbi-

trators shall take the same oath or affirmation, and perform the same duties.

ARTICLE II.

If an average value be not
agreed upon as compensation, the commission-
ers and arbitraatovresrasghealvlafliuxea. n

If, at the first meeting of this board, the governments of the United States and of Great Britain shall not have agreed upon an average value,
to be allowed as compensation for each slave for whom indemnification may be due ; then , and in that case, the commissioners and arbitrators
shall conjointly proceed to examine the testimony which shall be produced under the authority of the President of the United States, together with such other competent testimony as they may see cause to

require or allow, going to prove the true value of slaves at the period

of the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty of Ghent ; and upon the

In case they do not agree,
the evidence, & c. shall be

evidence so obtained , they shall agree upon and fix the average value. But in case that a majority of the board of commissioners and arbitrators
should not be able to agree respecting such average value, then and in that case, recourse shall be had to the arbitration of the minister or other

submitted to the agent of the mediating power, accredited to the government of the

minister of the United States. A statement of the evidence produced, and of the pro-

mediating

power, &c.

ceedings of the board thereupon, shall be communicated to the said

minister or agent, and his decision , founded upon such evidence and

proceedings, shall be final and conclusive. And the said average value,

when fixed and determined by either of the three before mentioned

methods, shall in all cases serve as a rule for the compensation to be

awarded for each and every slave, for whom it may afterwards be found that indemnification is due.

ARTICLE III.

'The two commissioners to constitute a board for the examination of
claims.

When the average value of slaves shall have been ascertained and fixed, the two commissioners shall constitute a board for the examination of the claims which are to be submitted to them, and they shall notify to the Secretary of State of the United States, that they are ready to receive a definite list of the slaves and other private property, for

which the citizens of the United States claim indemnification ; it being

understood and hereby agreed that the commission shall not take cogni-

zance of, nor receive, and that his Britannic majesty shall not be re-

quired to make, compensation for any claims for private property under

the first article of the treaty of Ghent, not contained in the said list.

His Britannic And his Britannic majesty hereby engages to cause to be produced be-

Majesty to

fore the commission, as material towards ascertaining facts, all the

coafutshee envuimdbeencre evidence of which his majesty's government may be in possession, by

ofslaves carried returns from his majesty's officers or otherwise, of the number of slaves

away to be pro- carried away. But the evidence so produced , or its defectiveness, shall

duced .

not go in bar of any claim or claims which shall be otherwise satisfac-

torily authenticated .

ARTICLE IV.

The two com. missioners to examine and determine
claims, how.

The two Commissioners are hereby empowered and required to go into an examination of all the claims submitted, through the above mentioned list, by the owners of slaves or other property, or by their lawful attorneys or representatives , and to determine the same, respectively,

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

287

bourg, le 12 Juillet, mil-huit-cent-vingt & deux, entre Sa Majesté L'Empereur de toutes les Russies, les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, & Sa Majesté Britannique, jure ou affirme solennellement que j'examinerai avec diligence, impartialité & sollicitude, & que je déciderai d'après mon meil-
leur entendement & en toute justice & équité, toutes les réclamations qui me seront déférées en ma qualité de commissaire (ou d'arbitre, suivant le cas, ) à la suite de la dite convention."
Les vacances causées par la mort ou autrement, seront remplies de la même manière qu'au moment de la nomination primitive, & les nouveaux commissaires ou arbitres devront prêter le même serment ou affirmation, & s'acquitter des mêmes devoirs.
ARTICLE II.
Si lors de la première réunion de ce conseil, le gouvernement des Etats Unis & celui de la Grande Bretagne ne sont point parvenus à déterminer d'un commun accord la valeur moyenne qui devra être assignée comme compensation pour chaque esclave , pour lequel il sera dû une indemnité, dans ce cas les commissaires et les arbitres procèderont conjointement à l'examen de tous les témoignages qui leur seront présentés par ordre du Président des Etats-Unis , ainsi que de tous les autres témoignages valables qu'ils croiront devoir requérir ou admettre dans la vue d'arrêter la véritable valeur des esclaves à l'époque de l'échange des ratifications du traité de Gand ; & d'après les preuves qu'ils auront ainsi obtenues, ils établiront & fixeront la susdite valeur moyenne. Dans le cas où la majorité du conseil des commissaires & arbitres ne pourroit pas s'accorder sur cette valeur proportionnelle , alors on aura recours à l'arbitrage du ministre ou autre agent de la puissance médiatrice accrédité auprès du gouvernement des Etats-Unis. Toutes les preuves produites & tous les actes des opérations du conseil à ce sujet, lui seront communiqués & la décision de ce ministre ou agent, basée, comme il vient d'être dit, sur ces preuves & sur les actes de ces operations, sera regardée comme finale & définitive. C'est sur la valeur moyenne fixée par un des trois modes mentionnés ci-dessus, que devra être réglée en tout état de cause la compensation qui sera accordée pour chaque esclave pour lequel on reconnoitra par la suite, qu'une indemnité est dûe.
ARTICLE III.
Lorsque le prorata aura été ainsi arrêté, les deux commissaires se constitueront, en conseil pour l'examen des réclamations qui leur seront soumises, & ils notifieront au Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis, qu'ils sont prêts à recevoir la liste définitive des esclaves & autres propriétés privées pour lesquels les citoyens des Etats-Unis réclament une indemnité. Il est entendu que les commissaires ne sauroient examiner ni recevoir, & que Sa Majesté Britannique ne sauroit, en vertu des clauses de l'article 1 du traité de Gand, bonifier aucune prétention, qui ne seroit pas portée sur la dite liste. Sa Majesté Britannique s'engage d'autre part à ordonner, que tous les témoignages que son gouvernement peut avoir acquis par les rapports des officiers de sa dite Majesté ou par tout autre canal sur le nombre des esclaves emmenés, soyent mis sous les yeux des commissaires, afin de contribuer à la vérification des faits. Mais soit que ses témoignages viennent à être produits, soit qu'ils manquent, cette circonstance ne pourra porter préjudice à une réclamation ou aux réclamations qui par une autre voie seront légitimées d'une manière satisfaisante.
ARTICLE IV.
Les deux Commissaires sont autorisés et chargés d'entrer dans l'examen de toutes les réclamations qui leur seront soumises au moyen de la liste cidessus mentionnée, par les propriétaires d'esclaves ou les posses-
seurs d'autres propriétés, ou par les procureurs ou mandataires de ceux-

238

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1822.

according to the merits of the several cases, under the rule of the Imperial decision herein above recited, and having reference, if need there be, to the explanatory documents hereunto annexed, marked A and B. And in considering such claims, the Commissioners are empowered and required to examine, on oath or affirmation , all such persons as shall come before them, touching the real number of the slaves, or value of other property, for which indemnification is claimed : and, also, to receive in evidence, according as they may think consistent with equity and justice, written depositions or papers, such depositions or papers being duly authenticated, either according to existing legal forms, or in such other manner as the said Commissioners shall see cause to require or allow.
ARTICLE V.

Ifthe commis- In the event of the two commissioners not agreeing in any particular

sioners shall not case under examination, or of their disagreement upon any question

agree in any case, they shall

which may result from the stipulations of this convention, then and in

draw by lot the that case they shall draw by lot the name of one of the two arbitrators,

name of one of who, after having given due consideration to the matter contested , shall t&hec.arbitrators, consult with the commissioners ; and a final decision shall be given ,
conformably to the opinion of the majority of the two commissioners,

and of the arbitrator so drawn by lot. And the arbitrator, when so act-

ing with the two commissioners, shall be bound in all respects by the rules of proceeding enjoined by the fourth article of this convention

upon the commissioners, and shall be vested with the same powers, and be deemed, for that case, a commissioner.

ARTICLE VI.

The decision

The decision of the two commissioners, or of the majority of the

soifontehrescsohmalmlisb-e final.
His Britannic Majesty engages to pay the sums awarded in specie.

board, as constituted by the preceding article, shall in all cases be final and conclusive, whether as to number, the value or the ownership of the slaves, or other property, for which indemnification is to be made. And his Britannic Majesty engages to cause the sum awarded to each and every owner in lieu of his slave or slaves, or other property, to be paid in specie, without deduction, at such time or times, and at such place or places, as shall be awarded by the said commissioners, and on

condition of such releases or assignments to be given, as they shall

Proviso.

direct : provided that no such payment shall be fixed to take place sooner than twelve months from the day of the exchange of the ratifications of this convention.

ARTICLE VII.

The commissioners and arbitrators to be
paid as shall be agreed upon, & c.

It is farther agreed , that the commissioners and arbitrators shall be respectively paid in such manner as shall be settled between the governments of the United States and Great Britain , at the time of the exchange of the ratifications of this convention. And all other expenses attending the execution of the commission, shall be defrayed jointly by the United States and His Britannic Majesty, the same being previously ascertained and allowed by the majority of the board.

ARTICLE VIII.
Certified copies A certified copy of this convention , when duly ratified by His Maof this conven- jesty the Emperor of all the Russias, by the President of the United vtieornedtotobtehdeelmii:- States, by and with the advice and consent of their Senate, and by His nister of the me- Britannic Majesty, shall be delivered by each of the contracting parties, diating power. respectively, to the minister or other agent of the mediating power, ac-
credited to the government of the United States, as soon as may be after the ratifications shall have been exchanged , which last shall be

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

289

ci, & à prononcer sur ces réclamations, suivant le degré de leur mérite, la lettre de la décision Impériale citée plus haut, & en cas de besoin la teneur des documens ci-annexés & cotés A & B. En considérant les dites réclamations, les Commissaires sont autorisés à interpeller sous serment ou affirmation telle personne qui se présenterait à eux, concernant le véritable nombre des esclaves ou la valeur de toute autre propriété pour laquelle il serait réclamé une indemnité ; ils sont autorisés de même à recevoir autant qu'ils le jugeront conforme à l'équité & à la justice, toutes les dépositions écrites, qui seraient duement legitimées soit d'après les formes existantes, voulues par la loi, soit dans tout autre mode que les dits Commissaires auraient lieu d'exiger ou d'admettre.
ARTICLE V.
Si les deux Commissaires ne parviennent pas à s'accorder sur une des réclamations qui seront soumises à leur examen , ou s'ils different d'opinion sur une question résultant de la présente convention , alors ils tireront au sort le nom d'un des deux arbitres, lequel après avoir pris en mure délibération l'objet en litige, le discutera avec les commissaires. La décision finale sera prise conformément à l'opinion de la majorité des deux commissaires & de l'arbitre tiré au sort. Dans des cas semblables l'arbitre sera tenu de procéder à tous égards d'après les règles prescrites aux commissaires par le 4me article de la présente convention. Il sera investi des mêmes pouvoirs & censé pour le moment faire les mêmes fonctions.

ARTICLE VI.

La décision des deux commissaires ou celle de la majorité du conseil formé ainsi qu'il a été dit en l'article précédent, sera dans tous les cas finale & définitive, soit relativement au nombre & à la valeur, soit pour la vérification de la propriété, des esclaves ou de tout autre bien meuble privé, pour lequel il sera réclamé une indemnité. Et Sa Majesté Britannique prend l'engagement que la somme adjugée à chaque proprietaire en place de son esclave ou de ses esclaves, ou de toute autre propriété, sera payée en espèces sans déduction, à tel tems ou à tels termes, & dans tel lieu ou tels endroits, que l'auront prononcé les dits
commissaires & sous clause de telles exemptions ou assignations, qu'ils l'auront arrêté pourvu seulement qu'il ne soit pas fixé pour ces payemens de terme plus rapproché que celui de douze mois à partir du jour de l'échange des ratifications de la présente convention.

ARTICLE VII.
Il est convenu en outre, que les commissaires & arbitres recevront de part & d'autre un traitement, dont les Gouvernemens des Etats-Unis & de Sa Majesté Britannique se réservent de déterminer le montant & le mode, à l'époque de l'échange des ratifications de la présente convention. Toutes les autres dépenses qui accompagneront les travaux de la commission seront supportées conjointement par les Etats-Unis & par Sa Majesté Britannique. Ces dépenses devront d'ailleurs être au préalable vérifiées & admises par la majorité du conseil.

ARTICLE VIII.

Lorsque la présente convention aura été duement ratifiée par Sa Ma-

jesté Impériale, par le Président des Etats-Unis de l'avis & du consente-

ment de leur Sénat & par Sa Majesté Britannique, une copie vidimée

en sera délivrée par chacune des parties contractantes au ministre ou

autre agent de la puissance médiatrice, accrédité près le Gouvernement

des Etats-Unis & cela le plutôt que faire se pourra, après que les ratifi-

sations auront été échangées : cette dernière formalité sera remplie à

VOL. VIII. 37



290

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

effected at Washington, in six months from the date hereof, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed this
Convention, drawn up in two languages, and have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done in triplicate,

at

St.

Petersburg ,

this

tthwierltfitehth day of

June, July,

one thousand

eight hundred and twenty-two.

NESSELRODE . CAPODISTRIAS . HENRY MIDDLETON. CHARLES BAGOT.

(L. S. ) (L. S.) (L. S.)
(L. S.)

A.

April 22, 1822.

Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middleton.

THE undersigned Secretary of State, directing the Imperial administration of Foreign Affairs, has the honor to communicate to Mr. Middleton, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, the opinion which the Emperor, his master, has thought it his duty to express upon the object of the differences which have arisen between the United States and Great Britain , relative to the interpretation of the first article of the Treaty of Ghent.
Mr. Middleton is requested to consider this opinion as the award required of the Emperor by the two powers.
He will doubtless recollect, that he, as well as the Plenipotentiary of His Britannic Majesty, in all his memorials, has principally insisted on the grammatical sense of the first article of the Treaty of Ghent, and that, even in his note of the 4th [ 16th ] November, 1821 , he has formally declared, that it was on the signification of the words in the text of the article as it now is, that the decision of His Imperial Majesty should be founded.
The same declaration being made in the note of the British Plenipotentiary, dated 8th [ 20th] October, 1821 , the Emperor had only to conform to the wishes expressed by the two parties, by devoting all his attention to the examination of the grammatical question .
The above mentioned opinion will show the manner in which His Imperial Majesty judges of this question : and in order that the cabinet.
of Washington may also know the motives upon which the Emperor's judgment is founded, the undersigned has hereto subjoined an extract of some observations upon the literal sense of the first article of the Treaty of Ghent.
In this respect, the Emperor has confined himself to following the rules of the language employed in drawing up the act, by which the two powers have required his arbitration , and defined the object of their difference.
His Imperial Majesty has thought it his duty, exclusively, to obey the authority of these rules, and his opinion could not but be the rigorous and necessary consequence thereof.
The undersigned eagerly embraces this occasion to renew to Mr Middleton the assurances of his most distinguished consideration .

St. Petersburg, 22d April, 1822.

NESSELRODE.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

291

Washington dans l'espace de six mois, de la date ci-dessous, ou plutôt s'il est possible.

En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé la présente
Convention & y ont apposé respectivement le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait triple à

St. Pétersbourg,

30Jula, le

de

l'année

mil-huit-cent-vingt &

deux.

A.

LE Soussigné, Secrétaire d'Etat dirigeant le Ministère Impérial des affaires étrangères , a l'honneur de communiquer à Monsieur de Middleton, Envoyé Extraordinaire & Ministre Plénipotentiaire des Etats Unis d'Amérique, l'opinion que l'Empereur, Son Maître, a cru devoir exprimer sur l'objet des différends qui se sont élevés entre les Etats Unis & la Grande Bretagne, relativement à l'interprêtation de l'Article premier du Traité de Gand.
Monsieur de Middleton est invité à considérer cette opinion comme la décision arbitrale demandée à l'Empereur par les deux Puissances.
Il se rappellera sans doute, qu'aussi bien que le Plénipotentiaire de S. M. Britannique, il a dans tous ses mémoires principalement insisté sur le sens grammatical de l'Art. I. du Traité de Gand, & que même dans sa note du Novembre, 1821 , il a formellement déclaré que c'etoit sur la signification des mots dans le texte de l'article tel qu'il existe, que devoit se fonder la décision de Sa Majesté Impériale.

La même déclaration étant consignée dans la note du Plénipotentiaire Britannique en date du Octobre, 1821 , L'Empereur n'a fait que se conformer aux voeux énoncés par les deux Parties, en vouant toute son attention à l'examen de la question grammaticale.
L'opinion ci-dessus mentionnée fera connoitre la manière dont Sa Majesté Impériale juge cette question, & afin que le Cabinet de Washington connoisse également les motifs sur lesquels se fonde le jugement de L'Empereur, le Soussigné joint à la présente, un extrait de quelques observations, sur le sens littéral de l'Article premier du Traité de Gand .
Sous ce rapport, L'Empereur s'est borné à suivre les règles de la langue employée dans la rédaction de l'acte, par lequel les deux Puissances ont réclamé son arbitrage, & défini l'objet de leur différend.

C'est uniquement à l'autorité de ces règles, que Sa Majesté Impériale a cru devoir obéir & Son Avis ne pouvoit qu'en être la conséquence rigoureuse & nécessaire.
Le Soussigné saisit avec empressement cette occasion , pour réitérer à Monsieur de Middleton les assurances de sa considération très-dis
tinguée.

St. Pétersbourg, ce 22 Avril, 1822. A Monsieur de Middleton, &c. &c.

NESSELRODE .

292

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

A

April 22, 1822.

HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY'S AWARD.

INVITED by the United States of America and by Great Britain to give an opinion, as arbitrator in the differences which have arisen
between these two powers, on the subject of the interpretation of the first article of the Treaty which they concluded at Ghent, on the 24th December, 1814, the Emperor has taken cognizance of all the acts, memorials, and notes, in which the respective plenipotentiaries have set forth to his administration of foreign affairs the arguments upon which each of the litigant parties depends in support of the interpretation given by it to the said article.
After having maturely weighed the observations exhibited on both sides :

Considering that the American plenipotentiary and the plenipotentiary of Britain have desired that the discussion should be closed ;
Considering that the former, in his note of the 4th ( 16th) November, 1821 , and the latter, in his note of the 8th (20th) October, ofthe same year, have declared that it is upon the construction of the text of the article as it stands , that the arbitrator's decision should be founded, and that both have appealed, only as subsidiary means, to the general principles of the law of nations and of maritime law ;
The Emperor is of opinion " that the question can only be decided according to the literal and grammatical sense of the first article of the treaty of Ghent."
As to the literal and grammatical sense of the first article of the treaty of Ghent :

Considering that the period upon the signification of which doubts have arisen, is expressed as follows :
" All territory, places, and possessions, whatsoever, taken by either party from the other during the war, or which may be taken after the signing of this treaty, excepting only the islands hereinafter mentioned, shall be restored without delay, and without causing any destruction or carrying away any of the artillery or other public property originally captured in the said forts or places, and which shall remain therein upon the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty, or any slaves, or other private property ; and all archives, records, deeds, and papers, either of a public nature, or belonging to private persons, which, in the course of the war , may have fallen into the hands of the officers of either party, shall be, as far as may be practicable, forthwith restored and delivered to the proper authorities and persons to whom they respectively belong."
Considering that, in this period, the words originally captured, and which shall remain therein upon the exchange of the ratifications, form an incidental phrase, which can have respect, grammatically, only to the substantives or subjects which precede ;
That the first article of the treaty of Ghent thus prohibits the contracting parties from carrying away from the places of which it stipu lates the restitution , only the public property, which might have been originally captured there, and which should remain therein upon the exchange of the ratifications, but that it prohibits the carrying away from. these same places, any private property whatever ;
That, on the other hand, these two prohibitions are solely applicable to the places of which the article stipulates the restitution :
The Emperor is of opinion : " That the United States of America are entitled to a just indemnifi-

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

293

Al
INVITÉ par les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et par la Grande Bretagne à émettre une opinion, comme arbitre dans les différends qui se sont élevés entre ces deux Puissances, au sujet de l'interprétation de l'article premier du Traité qu'elles ont conclu à Gand, le 24 Décembre, 1814, l'Empereur a pris connoissance de tous les actes, mémoires et notes, où les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont exposé à Son Ministère des affaires étrangères, les argumens que chacune des parties en litige fait valoir à l'appui de l'interprétation qu'elle donne au dit article.
Après avoir murement pesé les observations développées de part et d'autre :
Considérant que le Plénipotentiaire Américain et le Plénipotentiaire Britannique ont demandé que la discussion fût close ;
Considérant que le premier dans sa note du Novembre, 1821 , et le second dans sa note du Octobre de la même année, ont déclaré, que c'est sur la construction du texte de l'article, tel qu'il existe, que la décision arbitrale doit se fonder, et que l'un et l'autre n'ont invoqué que comme moyens subsidiaires, les principes généraux de droit des gens et de droit maritime.
L'Empereur est d'avis, " que ce n'est que d'après le sens littéral et grammatical de l'article 1 , du traité de Gand, que la question peut être décidée."
Quant au sens littéral et grammatical de l'article 1 , du traité de Gand.
Considérant que la période sur la signification de la quelle il s'élève des doutes, est construite ainsi qu'il suit.
"Tous les territoires, lieux et possessions quelconques, pris par l'une des parties sur l'autre, durant la guerre, ou qui pourroient être pris après la signature du présent traité, à l'exception seulement des isles ci-dessous mentionnées, seront rendus sans délai et sans faire détruire ou emporter aucune partie de l'artillerie ou autre propriété publique originairement prise dans les dits forts et lieux et qui s'y trouvera au moment de l'échange des ratifications du traité ou aucuns esclaves ou autres propriétés privées. Et tous archives, registres, actes et papiers, soit d'une nature publique ou appartenans à des particuliers, qui dans le cours de la guerre peuvent être tombés entre les mains des officiers de l'une ou de l'autre partie, seront de suite, en tant qu'il sera praticable, restitués et délivrés aux autorités propres et personnes auxquelles ils appartiennent respectivement. "
Considérant que dans cette période, les mots : originairement prise et qui s'y trouvera au moment de l'échange des ratifications, forment une phrase incidente, laquelle ne peut se rapporter grammaticalement qu'aux substantifs ou sujets qui précèdent.
Qu'ainsi l'article 1 du traité de Gand , ne défend aux parties contractantes d'emporter des lieux dont il stipule la restitution, que les seules oropriétés publiques qui y auroient été originairement prises et qui s'y trouveroient au moment de l'échange des ratifications, mais qu'il défend d'emporter de ces mêmes lieux, aucune propriété particulière quelconque.
Que d'un autre coté, ces deux défenses ne sont applicables qu'uniquement aux lieux dont l'article stipule la restitution .
L'Empereur est d'avis : " Que les Etats-Unis d'Amérique , sont en droit de réclamer de la
7.2

294

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

cation, from Great Britain, for all private property carried away by the British forces ; and as the question regards slaves more especially, for all such slaves as were carried away by the British forces, from the places and territories of which the restitution was stipulated by the treaty, in quitting the said places and territories.
" That the United States are entitled to consider as having been so carried away, all such slaves as may have been transported from the above mentioned territories on board of the British vessels within the waters of the said territories, and who, for this reason, have not been restored.
" But that, if there should be any American slaves who were carried away from territories, of which the first article of the treaty of Ghent has not stipulated the restitution to the United States, the United States are not to claim an indemnification for the said slaves. "
The Emperor declares , besides, that he is ready to exercise the office of mediator, which has been conferred on him beforehand by the two states, in the negotiations which must ensue between them in consequence of the award which they have demanded.

Done at St. Petersburg, 22d April, 1822.

B.

April 22, 1822.

Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middleton.

The undersigned Secretary of State, directing the Imperial administration of foreign affairs, has, without delay, laid before the Emperor , his master, the explanations into which the Ambassador of His Britannic Majesty has entered with the Imperial Ministry, in consequence of the preceding confidential communication which was made to Mr. Middleton, as well as to Sir Charles Bagot, of the opinion expressed by the Emperor upon the true sense of the 1st Article of the Treaty of Ghent.
Sir Charles Bagot understands, that , in virtue of the decision of His Imperial Majesty, " His Britannic Majesty is not bound to indemnify the United States for any slaves, who, coming from places which have never been occupied by his troops, voluntarily joined the British forces, either in consequence of the encouragement which His Majesty's officers had offered them , or to free themselves from the power of their master-these slaves not having been carried away from places or territories captured by His Britannic Majesty during the war, and, consequently, not having been carried away from places of which the article stipulates the restitution."
In answer to this observation , the undersigned is charged by His Imperial Majesty to communicate what follows to the Minister ofthe United States of America.

The Emperor having, by the mutual consent of the two Plenipotentiaries, given an opinion , founded solely upon the sense which results from the text of the article in dispute, does not think himself called upon to decide here any question relative to what the laws of war permit or forbid to the belligerents ; but, always faithful to the grammatical interpretation of the 1st Article of the Treaty of Ghent, His Imperial Majesty declares , a second time, that it appears to him according to this interpretation ;
"That, in quitting the places and territories of which the Treaty of Ghent stipulates the restitution to the United States, his Britannic Majesty's forces had no right to carry away from these same places and territories, absolutely, any slave, by whatever means he had fallen or come into their power.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

295

Grande Bretagne une juste indemnité, pour toutes les propriétés particuliéres que les forces Britanniques auroient emportées, et comme il s'agit plus spécialement d'esclaves , pour tous les esclaves que les forces Britanniques auroient emmenés des lieux et territoires dont le traité stipule la restitution, en quittant ces mêmes lieux et territoires.
"Que les Etats-Unis sont en droit de regarder comme emmenés, tous ceux de ces esclaves qui, des territoires indiqués ci-dessus, auroient été transportés à bord de vaisseaux Britanniques mouillés dans les eaux des dits territoires, et qui par ce motif n'auroient pas été restitués.
" Mais que s'il y a des esclaves Américains emmenés de territoires dont l'article 1 du traité de Gand n'a pas stipulé la restitution aux EtatsUnis, les Etats-Unis ne sont pas en droit de réclamer une indemnité, pour les dits esclaves."
L'Empereur déclare en outre, qu'il est prêt à exercer l'office de Médiateur qui Lui a été déféré d'avance, par les deux Etats, dans les négociations que doit amener entre eux, la décision arbitrale qu'ils ont demandée.
Fait à St. Pétersbourg, le 22 Avril, 1822.

B.

Le Soussigné, Secrétaire d'Etat dirigeant le Ministère Impérial des affaires étrangères, s'est empressé de porter à la connoissance de l'Empereur son maître, les explications dans lesquelles Mr. l'Ambassadeur de S. M. Britannique est entré avec le Ministère Impérial , à la suite de la communication préalable et confidentielle qui a été faite à Monsieur de Middleton ainsi qu'à Mr. le Chevalier Bagot de l'opinion exprimée par l'Empereur, sur le vrai sens de l'art. 1er du Traité de Gand.
Mr. le Chevalier Bagot entend qu'en vertu de la décision de Sa Majesté Impériale, " S. M. Britannique n'est pas tenue à indemniser les Etats Unis d'aucuns esclaves qui, venant des endroits qui n'ont jamais été occupés par ses troupes, se sont volontairement réunis aux forces Britanniques, ou en conséquence de l'encouragement que les officiers de S. M. leur avoit offert, ou se dérober au pouvoir de leur maître , ces esclaves n'ayant pas été emmenés des lieux ou territoires pris par S. M. Britannique durant le guerre, et conséquemment n'ayant pas été emmenés des lieux dont l'article stipule la restitution."
En réponse à cette observation , le soussigné est chargé par Sa Majesté Impériale, de communiquer ce qui suit à Monsieur le ministre des Etats Unis d'Amérique.
L'Empereur ayant, du consentement mutuel des deux plénipotentiaires, émis une opinion fondée uniquement sur le sens qui résulte du texte de l'article en litige, ne se croit appelé à décider ici aucune question relative à ce que les loix de la guerre permettent ou défendent aux parties belligérantes, mais toujours fidèle à l'interprétation grammaticale de l'art. 1er du traité de Gand, Sa Majesté Impériale déclare une seconde fois qu'il lui semble , d'après cette interprétation.
"Qu'en quittant les lieux et territoires dont le traité de Gand stipule la restitution aux Etats Unis, les forces de S. M. Britannique n'avoient e droit d'emmener de ces mêmes lieux et territoires, absolument aucun esclave, par quelque moyen qu'il fût tombé ou venu se remettre en leur Louvoir ,

296

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1822.

" But that if, during the war, American slaves had been carried away by the English forces, from other places than those of which the Treaty of Ghent stipulates the restitution, upon the territory, or on board British vessels, Great Britain should not be bound to indemnify the United States for the loss of these slaves, by whatever means they might have fallen or come into the power of her officers."
Although convinced, by the previous explanations above mentioned, that such is also the sense which Sir Charles Bagot attaches to his observation, the undersigned has nevertheless received from His Imperial Majesty orders to address the present note to the respective Plenipotentiaries, which will prove to them, that, in order the better to justify the confidence of the two Governments, the Emperor has been unwilling that the slightest doubt should arise regarding the consequences of his opinion.
The undersigned eagerly embraces this occasion of repeating to Mr. Middleton the assurance of his most distinguished consideration.

St. Petersburg, 22d April, 1822.

NESSELRODE.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1822.

297

" Mais que si, durant la guerre, des esclaves Américains avoient été emmenés par les forces Angloises, d'autres lieux que ceux dont le traité de Gand stipule la restitution , sur territoire ou à bord de vaisseaux Britanniques, la Grande Bretagne ne seroit pas tenue d'indemniser les Etats Unis de la perte de ces esclaves, par quelque moyen qu'ils fussent tombés ou venus se remettre au pouvoir de ses officiers."
Quoique convaincu, par les explications préalables dont il a été question plus haut, que tel est aussi le sens que Mr. le Chevalier Bagot attache à son observation, le soussigné n'en a pas moins reçu de Sa Majesté Impériale, l'ordre d'addresser aux plénipotentiaires respectifs, la présente note, qui leur prouvera, que pour mieux répondre à la confiance des deux gouvernemens, l'Empereur n'a pas voulu qu'il pût s'élever le plus leger doute sur les conséquences de son opinion.

Le Soussigné saisit avec empressement cette occasion de réitérer à Monsieur de Middleton, l'assurance de sa considération très distinguée.

St. Petersbourg, le 22. Avril, 1822.

NESSELRODE

À MONSIEUR DE MIDDLETON, &c. &c.

VOL. VIII. 38

ALTERED ARTICLES

Feb. 24, 1824. Ofthe Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United

Ratified by the U. S. Senate.
Jan. 13, 1825. Proclamation ofthe President of the United
States, Jan. 21, 1825.
Regulation of visits at sea.

States and the Bashan Bey of Tunis. (a)

ARTICLE the 6th-- As it now is.

ARTICLE 6th - As it was.

IF a Tunisian corsair shall meet with an American vessel, and shall visit it with her boat, two men only shall be allowed to go on board ,

If a Tunisian corsair shall meet with an American merchant vessel , and shall visit it with her boat, she shall not exact any thing, under

peaceably, to satisfy themselves of its being American , who, as well as any passengers of other nations

pain of being severely punished. And, in like manner, if a vessel of war of the United States shall meet

they may have on board, shall go with a Tunisian merchant vessel,

free, both them and their goods ; she shall observe the same rule. In and the said two men shall not case a slave shall take refuge on

exact any thing, on pain of being board ofan American vessel of war,

Slaves escap severely punished. In case a slave the consul shall be required to cause

ing and taking refuge on board

escapes, and takes refuge on board

him to be restored ; and if any

of American an American vessel of war , he shall of their prisoners shall escape on

ships of war, to be free , and no demand shall be

be free.

made either for his restoration or

for payment.

board of the Tunisian vessels, they shall be restored ; but if any slave shall take refuge in any American merchant vessel, and it shall be

proved that the vessel has departed

with the said slave , then he shall

be returned, or his ransom shall be paid.

Salutes to ships of war.

ARTICLE the 11th - As it now is.

ARTICLE 11th - As it was.

When a vessel of war of the United States shall enter the port ofthe Gouletta, she shall be saluted with twenty-one guns , which salute the vessel of war shall return gun
for gun only, and no powder will be given, as mentioned in the ancient eleventh article of this treaty, which is hereby annulled .

When a vessel of war of the
United States of America shall enter the port of Tunis, and the Consul shall request that the Castle may salute her, the number of
guns shall be fired which he may request ; and if the said Consul
does not want a salute, there shall be no question about it.
But, in case he shall desire the
salute, and the number of guns shall be fired which he may have requested, they shall be counted , and returned by the vessel in as many barrels of cannon powder.
The same shall be done with respect to the Tunisian Corsairs, when they shall enter any port of the United States.

(a) See notes of the treaties between the United States and Tunis, ante, page 157. (298)

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1824.

299

ARTICLE the 12th- As it now is.

ARTICLE 12th- As it was.

When citizens of the United States shall come within the dependencies of Tunis to carry on

When citizens of the United Commerce to
States shall come within the de- be on an equal footing with the
pendencies of Tunis, to carry on most favored

commerce there, the same respect commerce there, the same respect nations.

shall be paid to them which the shall be paid to them which the

merchants of other nations enjoy ; merchants of other nations enjoy ;

and if they wish to establish them- and if they wish to establish them-

selves within our ports, no opposi- selves within our ports, no opposi-

tion shall be made thereto, and tion shall be made thereto ; and

they shall be free to avail them- they shall be free to avail them-

selves of such interpreters as they selves of such interpreters as they

may judge necessary, without any may judge necessary, without any

obstruction, in conformity with the obstruction , in conformity with the usages of other nations ; and if a usages of other nations ; and if a

Tunisian subject shall go to esta- Tunisian subject shall go to esta-

blish himself within the dependen- blish himself within the dependen-

cies of the United States, he shall cies of the United States, he shall

be treated in like manner. If any be treated in like manner. Tunisian subject shall freight an If any Tunisian subject shall Rules as to

American vessel, and load her with freight an American vessel, and freight.

merchandize, and shall afterwards load her with merchandize , and want to unload, or ship them on shall afterwards want to unlade or

board of another vessel, we shall ship them on board of another

not permit him until the matter is vessel, we will not permit him , determined by a reference of mer- until the matter is determined by

chants, who shall decide upon the a reference of merchants, who shall

case, and, after the decision , the decide upon the case , and after

determination shall be conformed the decision , the determination

to.

shall be conformed to.

No captain shall be detained in No captain shall be detained in No captain to

port against his consent, except port against his consent, except be detained when our ports are shut for the when our ports are shut for the asgeantin, setxhciesptc,on. vessels of all other nations, which vessels of all other nations ; which & c.

may take place with respect to mer- may take place with respect to mer-

chant vessels, but not to those of chant vessels, but not to those of

war.

war.

The subjects and citizens of the two nations, respectively, Tunisians and Americans, shall be protected in the places where they may be by the officers of the government

The subjects of the two contracting powers shall be under the protection of the Prince, and under the jurisdiction of the chief of the place where they may be , and no

Protection of the citizens of tnhateiroenssp. ective

there existing ; but, on failure of such protection, and for redress of every injury, the party may resort to the chief authority in each country, by whom adequate protection and complete justice shall be rendered. In case the government of Tunis shall have need of an Ame-

other person shall have authority over them. If the Commandant ofthe place does not conduct himself agreeably to justice, a representation of it shall be made to us.
In case the Government shall have need of an American mer-
chant vessel, it shall cause it to

Preference to
Tunisian vessels for freight.

rican vessel for its service , such be freighted, and then a suitable

vessel being within the Regency, freight shall be paid to the Cap-

and not previously engaged, the Government shall have the preference, on its paying the same freight

tain, agreeably to the intention of the Government, and the Captain shall not refuse it.

as other merchants usually pay for the same service, or at the like

rate, if the service be without a

customary precedent.

300

TREATY WITH TUNIS . 1824.

ARTICLE the 14th-As it now is.

ARTICLE 14th- As it was.

Trade between the par-
teiqeusatlofbooetoinng.an

All vessels belonging to the citizens and inhabitants of the United States shall be permitted to enter
the ports of the kingdom of Tunis, and freely trade with the subjects

and inhabitants thereof, on paying

the usual duties which are paid

by other most favoured nations at

peace with the Regency. In like

manner, all vessels belonging to

the subjects and inhabitants of the

kingdom of Tunis shall be per-

mitted to enter the different ports

of the United States, and freely

trade with the citizens and in-

habitants thereof, on paying the

usual duties which are paid by

other most favoured nations at peace with the United States.

A Tunisian merchant, who may go to America with a vessel of any nation soever, loaded with mer chandize, which is the production of the kingdom of Tunis, shall pay duty (small as it is) like the merchants of other nations ; and the American merchants shall equally pay for the merchandize of their country, which they may bring to Tunis, under their flag, the same duty as the Tunisians pay in America. But, if an American merchant, or a merchant of any other nation, shall bring American merchandize, under any other flag, he shall pay six per cent. duty in like manner, if a foreign merchant shall bring the merchandize of his country, under the American flag, he shall also pay six per cent.

Concluded, signed , and sealed , at the Palace of Bardo, near Tunis, the 24th day of the moon jumed teni, in the year of the Hegira , 1239, corresponding the 24th of February, 1824, of the Christian year, and the 48th year of the Independence of the United States, reserving the same, nevertheless, for the final ratification of the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
S. D. HEAP, Charge d'Affaires, (L. 8.) SIDI MAHMOUD'S signature and (L. s.)

CONVENTION

April 1824. Between the United States of America and Russia. (a)

Ratified on the 1th Jan. 1825.

In the name of the most holy and indivisible Trinity : The President of the United States of America and His Majesty the

emperor of all the Russias, wishing to cement the bonds of amity

maPdreocJlaanm.at1i2o. n which unite them, and to secure between them the invariable mainte-

1825.

nance of a perfect concord, by means of the present Convention , have

named, as their Plenipotentiaries, to this effect, to wit : The President

of the United States of America, HENRY MIDDLETON, a citizen of said

States, and their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near his Imperial Majesty and His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, his beloved and faithful CHARLES ROBERT Count of NESSELRODE, actual Privy Counsellor, Member of the Council of State, Secre-

tary of State directing the administration of Foreign Affairs, actual

Chamberlain, Knight of the order of St. Alexander Nevsky, Grand Cross of the order of St. Wladimir of the first class , Knight of that of

the White Eagle of Poland, Grand Cross of the order of St. Stephen of Hungary, Knight of the orders of the Holy Ghost and of St. Michael, and Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor of France, Knight Grand

Cross of the orders of the Black and of the Red Eagle of Prussia, of the Annunciation of Sardinia, of Charles III. of Spain, of St. Ferdi-

nand and of Merit of Naples, of the Elephant of Denmark, of the Polar

Star of Sweden, of the Crown of Wirtemberg, of the Guelphs of Hanover, of the Belgic Lion, of Fidelity of Baden, and of St. Constantine

of Parma ; and PIERRE de POLETICA , actual Counsellor of State , Knight of the order of St. Anne of the first class , and Grand Cross of the order

of St. Wladimir of the second ; who, after having exchanged their full

powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon, and signed, the

following stipulations :

ARTICLE FIRST.

Navigation

It is agreed, that, in any part of the Great Ocean , commonly called

tahnedPfaicsihfeircietso obfe the Pacific Ocean, or South Sea, the respective citizens or subjects of

free to both the high contracting powers shall be neither disturbed nor restrained,

parties.

either in navigation or in fishing, or in the power of resorting to the

coasts, upon points which may not already have been occupied, for the purpose of trading with the natives, saving always the restrictions and

conditions determined by the following articles :

ARTICLE SECOND.

Illicit trade to be prevented.

With the view of preventing the rights of navigation and of fishing, exercised upon the great ocean by the citizens and subjects of the high
contracting powers, from becoming the pretext for an illicit trade, it is agreed that the citizens of the United States shall not resort to any point where there is a Russian establishment, without the permission of the governor or commander ; and that, reciprocally, the subjects of Russia shall not resort, without permission , to any establishment of the United States upon the North West Coast.

(a) See treaty with Russia, post, 444. (302)

CONVENTION
Entre les Etats- Unis d'Amérique et Russé.
Au nom de la très Sainte et Indivisible Trinité : Le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes les Russies, voulant, cimenter les liens d'amitié qui les unissent, et assurer entre eux le maintien invariable d'un parfait accord, moyennant la présente Convention, ont nommé pour leurs Plénipotentiaires à cet effet, savoir : Le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, le Sieur HENRY MIDDLETON, citoyen des dits Etats, et leur Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Impériale : et Sa Majesté l'Empereur, de toutes les Russies, ses amés et féaux les Sieurs CHARLES ROBERT Comte de NESSELRODE , Conseiller Privé actuel, Membre du Conseil d'Etat, Secrétaire d'Etat Dirigeant le Ministère des affaires étrangères, Chambellan actuel, Chevalier de l'ordre de St. Alexandre Nevsky, Grand Croix de l'ordre de St. Wladimir de la 1re classe, Chevalier de celui de l'aigle blanc de Pologne, Grand Croix de l'ordr.e de St. Etienne d'Hongrie, Chevalier des ordres du St. Esprit et de St. Michel et Grand Croix de celui de la Légion d'Honneur de France, Chevalier Grand Croix des ordres de l'aigle noir et de l'aigle rouge de Prusse, de l'annonciade de Sardaigne, de Charles III. d'Espagne, de St. Ferdinand et du mérite de Naples , de l'Eléphant de Danemarc, de l'Etoile Polaire de Suède, de la Couronne de Würtemberg, des Guelphes de Hanovre, du Lion Belge, de la Fidélité de Bade, et de St. Constantin de Parme : et PIERRE de POLETICA, Conseiller d'Etat actuel, Chevalier de l'ordre de St. Anne de la 1re classe, et Grand Croix de l'ordre de St. Wladimir de la seconde ; lesquels apres avoir échangé leurs pleins-pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et signé les stipulations suivantes :
ARTICLE PREMIER.
Il est convenu que dans aucune partie du grand océan, appelé communément Océan Pacifique ou Mer du Sud, les citoyens ou sujets respectifs des hautes puissances contractantes ne seront ni troublés, ni gênés soit dans la navigation, soit dans l'exploitation de la pêche, soit dans la faculté d'aborder aux côtes sur des points qui ne seroient pas déjà occupés, afin d'y faire le commerce avec les indigènes, sauf toutefois les restrictions et conditions déterminées par les articles qui suivent.
ARTICLE DEUXIÈME.
Dans la vue d'empêcher que les droits de navigation et de pêche exerceés sur le grand océan par les citoyens et sujets des hautes puissances contractantes ne deviennent le prétexte d'un commerce illicite , il est convenu, que les citoyens des Etats Unis n'aborderont à aucun point où il se trouve un établissement Russe, sans la permission du Gouverneur ou Commandant ; et que réciproquement les sujets Russes ne pourront aborder sans permission à aucun établissement des Etats-Unis sur la côte nord ouest.
(303)

304

CONVENTION WITH RUSSIA. 1824.

ARTICLE THIRD.

No establish. ment to be
fzeonrsmeofdtbhye Uci.tSi . north of 54 degrees 40 min-
suitaess,oourthbyofRtuhse same latitude.

It is moreover agreed, that, hereafter, there shall not be formed by the citizens of the United States, or under the authority of the said States, any establishment upon the Northwest Coast of America, nor in any of the islands adjacent, to the north of fifty four degrees and forty minutes of north latitude ; and that, in the same manner, there shall be none formed by Russian subjects, or under the authority of Russia, south of the same parallel.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Interior seas to bnaetfiroenes tfoorbotetnh years.

It is, nevertheless, understood, that, during a term of ten years,

counting from the signature of the present convention, the ships of both

powers, or which belong to their citizens or subjects, respectively, may

reciprocally frequent, without any hindrance whatever, the interior seas,

gulphs, harbours, and creeks, upon the coast mentioned in the preceding article, for the purpose of fishing and trading with the natives of the

country.

ARTICLE FIFTH.

Certain articles always to be excepted from this commerce.

All spirituous liquors, fire-arms, other arms, powder, and munitions
of war of every kind, are always excepted from this same commerce permitted by the preceding article, and the two powers engage, reciprocally, neither to sell, nor suffer them to be sold to the natives by their respective citizens and subjects, nor by any person who may be under their authority. It is likewise stipulated that this restriction shall never afford a pretext, nor be advanced, in any case, to authorize either search or detention of the vessels, seizure of the merchandize, or, in fine, any measures of constraint whatever towards the merchants or the crews

who may carry on this commerce ; the high contracting powers reciprocally reserving to themselves to determine upon the penaltics to be incurred, and to.inflict the punishments in case of the contravention of this article, by their respective citizens or subjects.

ARTICLE SIXTH.

Ratifications

When this Convention shall have been duly ratified by the President

to be exchanged of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate on the

in ten months. cne part, and on the other by his Majesty the Emperor of all the Rus-

sias, the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington in the space of

ten months from the date below, or sooner, if possible. In faith where-

of, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed this Convention, and thereto affixed the seals of their arms.

Done at St. Petersburg, the y April, of the year of Grace one thou sand eight hundred and twenty-four.

HENRY MIDDLETON, Le Comte CHARLES NESSELRODE ,
PIERRE DE POLETICA,

(L. S.) L. S. (L. 8.)

CONVENTION WITH RUSSIA. 1824.

305

ARTICLE TROISIÈME.
Il est convenu en outre, que dorénavant il ne pourra être formé par les citoyens des Etats-Unis, ou sous l'autorité des dits Etats, aucun établissement sur la Côte nord ouest d'Amérique, ni dans aucune des îles adjacentes au nord du cinquante quatrième degré et quarante minutes de latitude septentrionale ; et que de même il n'en pourra être formé aucun par des sujets Russes, ou sous l'autorité de la Russie, au sud de la même parallèle.
ARTICLE QUATRIÈME.
Il est néanmoins entendu que pendant un terme de dix années à compter de la signature de la présente convention , les vaisseaux des deux Puissances, ou qui appartiendroient à leurs citoyens ou sujets respectifs, pourront reciproquément fréquenter, sans entrave quelconque, les mers interieurs, les golfes, hâvres et criques sur la côte mentionneé dans l'article précédent, afin d'y faire la pêche et le commerce avec les naturels du pays.
ARTICLE CINQUIÈME.
Sont toutefois exceptées de ce même commerce accordé par l'article précédent, toutes les liqueurs spiritueuses, les armes à feu , armes blanches, poudre, et munitions de guerre de toute espèce, que les deux Puissances s'engagent réciproquement à ne pas vendre, ni laisser vendre aux Indigènes par leurs citoyens et sujets respectifs, ni par aucun individu qui se trouveroit sous leur autorité. Il est également stipulé que cette restriction ne pourra jamais servir de prétexte, ni être alleguée dans aucun cas, pour autoriser soit la visite ou la détention des Vaisseaux, soit la saisie de la marchandise, soit en fin des mesures quelconques de contrainte envers les armateurs ou les equipages qui feroient ce commerce ; les hautes Puissances contractantes s'étant réciproquement reservé de statuer sur les peines à encourir, et d'infliger les amendes encouruës en cas de contravention à cet article, par leurs citoyens ou sujets respectifs.
ARTICLE SIXIÈME .
Lorsque cette Convention aura été duement ratifiée par le Président des Etats-Unis de l'avis et du consentement du Sénat, d'une part, et de l'autre par Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes les Russies, les ratifications en seront echangées à Washington dans le délai de dix mois de la date ci-dessous ou plutôt si faire se peut. En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires respectifs l'ont signée, et y ont fait apposer les cachets de leurs armes.

Fait à St. Petersbourg le 7 Avril de l'an de grâce mil huit cent vingt quatre.

HENRY MIDDLETON, Le Comte CHARLES DE NESSELRODE,
PIERRE DE POLETICA,

(L. S. ) L. S. (L. S.)

VOL. VIII. 39

2A2

GENERAL CONVENTION

Oct. 3, 1824. OfPeace, Amity, Navigation, and Commerce, between the

Ratified May 27, 1825. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., May 31 , 1825. Object of the treaty.

United States of America and the Republic of Colombia.
In the name of God, Author and Legislator of the Universe. The United States of America, and the Republic of Colombia, desiring to make lasting and firm the friendship and good understanding which happily prevails between both nations, have resolved to fix, in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall in future be religiously observed between the one and the other, by means of a Treaty or General Convention of Peace, Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation.

For this most desirable object, the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on RICHARD CLOUGH Anderson, Junior, a citizen of the said States, and their Minister Plenipotentiary to the said Republic ; and the Vice-President of the Republic of Colombia, charged with the Executive power, on PEDRO GUAL, Secretary of State and of Foreign Relations, who, after having exchanged their said full powers in due and proper form, have agreed to the following Articles :

ARTICLE 1st.

Firm and in-
v&iocl.atbolebepeoabc-e, served.

There shall be a perfect, firm , and inviolable peace and sincere friend-

ship between the United States of America and the Republic of Colom-

bia, in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between

their people and citizens respectively, without distinction of persons or

places.

ARTICLE 2d.

U. S. and Colombia engage
mutually not to grant favours to other nations , which shall not
immediately become common to the other party.

The United States of America and the Republic of Colombia desiring
to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all, engage mutually not to grant any particular favour to other nations in respect of conimerce and navigation , which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE 3d.

Citizens ofthe The citizens of the United States may frequent all the coasts and

U.S. at liberty countries of the Republic of Colombia, and reside and trade there , in
to frequent all the coasts and all sorts of produce, manufactures, and merchandise, and shall pay no

countries of the other or greater duties, charges, or fees, whatsoever, than the most

republic of Co- favoured nation is or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all lombia, & c.
the rights, privileges, and exemptions in navigation and commerce,

which the most favoured nation does or shall enjoy, submitting them-

selves, nevertheless, to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established ,

and to which are submitted the subjects and citizens of the most favourCitizens ofthe ed nations. republic of Co- In like manner the citizens of the Republic of Colombia may frequent

lombia to enjoy, all the coasts and countries of the United States, and reside and trade in the U. S.,
there, in all sorts of produce, manufactures, and merchandize, and shall

leges.

pay no other or greater duties, charges, or fees, whatsoever, than the (306 )

CONVENCION JENERAL
De Paz, Amistad, Navegacion, y Comercio entre la Republica de Colombia y los Estados-Unidos de America,
Año de 1824.
En el nombre de Dios, Autor y Legislador del Universo. La Republica de Colombia, y los Estados-Unidos de America , deseando hacer durandera y firme la amistad y buena inteligencia que felizmente existe entre ambas Potencias, han resuelto fijar de una manera clara, distinta y positiva las reglas que deben observar religiosamente en lo venidero, por medio de un tratado, ó convencion general de paz, amistad comercio y navegacion.
Con este muy deseable objeto, el Vice-Presidente de la Republica de Colombia encargado del poder Ejecutivo, ha conferido plenos poderes a PEDRO GUAL, Secretario de Estado y del despacho de relaciones esteriores de la misma, y el Presidente de los Estados-Unidos de America a RICARDO CLOUGH ANDERSON, el menor , Ciudadano de dichos Estados, y su Ministro Plenipotenciario cerca de la dicha Republica ; quienes despues de haber canjeado sus espresados plenos poderes en debida y buena forma, han convenido en los articulos siguientes.
ART . 1°.
Habra una paz, perfecta, firme, é inviolable y amistad sincera entre la Republica de Colombia y los Estados-Unidos de America, en toda la estencion de sus posesiones y territorios, y entre sus pueblos y Ciudadanos respectivamente sin distincion de personas, ni lugares.
ART . 2°.
La Republica de Colombia, y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando vivir en paz y harmonia con las demas Naciones de la tierra, por medio de una politica franca, é igualmente amistosa con todas, se obligan mutuamente á no conceder favores particulares á otras naciones, con respecto á comercio y navegacion , que no se hagan inmediatamente comunes á una ú otra, quien gozarà del mismo libremente, si la concesion fuese hecha libremente, ó prestando la misma compensacion, si la concesion fuere condicional.
ART . 3°.
Los Ciudadanos de la Republica de Colombia podrán frecuentar todas las costas y paises de los Estados-Unidos de America, y residir, y traficar en ellos con toda suerte de producciones, manufacturas , y mercaderias, y no pagarán otros, ó mayores derechos, impuestos, o emolumentos cualesquiera que los que las naciones mas favorecidas están ó estuvieren obligadas á pagar ; y gozarán todos los derechos, privilejios y esenciones, que gozan ó gozaren los de la nacion mas favorecida , con respecto á navegacion y comercio, sometiendose, no obstante, á las leyes, decretos , y usos establecidos, á los cuales estan sujetos los subditos ó Ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas. Del mismo modo los Ciudadanos de los Estados-Unidos de America podrán frecuentar todas las costas y Daises de la Republica de Colombia, y residir y traficár en ellos con todo suerte de producciones, manufacturas, y mercaderias, y no pagarán otros ó mayores derechos, impuestos, ó emolumentos cualesquiera, que
(307)

308

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

most favoured nation is or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges, and exemptions in navigation and commerce, which the most favoured nation does or shall enjoy, submitting themselves, nevertheless , to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established, and to which are submitted the subjects and citizens of the most favoured nations.

ARTICLE 4th.

Merchants ,
commanders of ships, & c., to manage their
business as citizens of the most favoured nations.

It is likewise agreed that it shall be wholly free for all merchants, commanders of ships, and other citizens of both countries, to manage themselves their own business in all the ports and places subject to the jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and sale of their goods and merchandize by wholesale or retail, as with respect to the loading, unloading, and sending off their ships, they being in all these cases to be treated as citizens of the country in which they reside, or at least to be placed on a footing with the subjects or citizens of the most favoured nation.

Citizens of nei-
ttrhaecrtionfgtphaertcioensliable to any embargo, & c.

ARTICLE 5th.
The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels, cargoes, merchandizes, or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any public or private purpose whatever, without allowing to those interested a sufficient indemnification .

ARTICLE 6th.

Citizens of either of the
contracting parties, seeking refuge in the dominions of
the other, to be treated as
friends, & c.

Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports, or dominions of the other, with their vessels, whether merchant or of war, public or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to them all favour and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provisions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.

ARTICLE 7th.

All ships , & c.
bcietlioznegnsinogftoo ntehe of the contracting parties, cap taunrdedfobuynpdirwaittehs-, in the dominions doeflievietrheerd, utop bteo the owners.

All the ships, merchandize, and effects belonging to the citizens of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates, whether within the limits of its jurisdiction or on the high seas, and may be carried or found in the rivers, roads, bays, ports, or dominions, of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving in due and proper form their rights before the competent tribunals ; it being well understood that the claim should be made within the term of one year by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of the respective governments .

ARTICLE 8th.

Assistance to
btheerceonndterraecdtibnyg parties , in case
of wrecks, & c. within the dominions of each other.

When any vessel belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be wrecked , foundered, or shall suffer any damage on the coasts, or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to them all assistance and protection in the same manner which is usual and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens, permitting them to unload the said vessel, if necessary, of its merchan-

dizes and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or contribu-

tion whatever, until they may be exported.

ARTICLE 9th. The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

309

los que las naciones mas favorecidas, están ó estuvieren obligadas á pagár, y gozarán de todos los derechos, privilejios y esenciones, que gozan ó gozaren los de la nacion mas favorecida con respecto á navegacion y comercio, sometiendose, no obstante, á las leyes, decretos y usos establecidos, á los cuales estan sujetos los subditos ó ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas.
ART . 4°.
Se conviene ademas, que será enteramente libre y permitido, á los comerciantes, comandantes de buques, y otros Ciudadanos de ambos paises el manejar sus negocios, por si mismos, en todos los puertos y lugares sujetos á la jurisdiccion de uno ú otro, asi respecto á las consignaciones y ventas por mayor y menor de sus efectos y mercaderias, como de la carga, descarga y despacho de sus buques , debiendo en todos estos casos, ser tratados como Ciudadanos del pais en que residan, ó al menos puestos sobre un pie igual con los subditos ó Ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas.
ART . 5°.
Los Ciudadanos de una ú otra parte, no podrán ser embargados ni detenidos con sus embarcaciones, tripulaciones, mercaderias, y efectos comerciales de su pertenencia, para alguna espedicion militar, usos publicos, ó particulares cualesquiera que sean, sin concedèr á los interesados una suficiente indemnizacion.
ART . 6°.
Siempre que los Ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes se vieren precisados á buscár refujio, ó asilo en los rios, bahias, puertos, ó dominios de la otra, con sus buques, ya sean mercantes, ó de guerra, publicos ó particulares, por mal tiempo, persecucion de piratas ó enemigos, serán recibidos y tratados con humanidad, dandoles todo favor y proteccion, para reparar sus buques, procurár viveres, y ponerse en situacion de continuar su viaje, sin obstaculo ó estorbo de ningun genero.
ART . 7°.
Todos los buques, mercaderias y efectos pertenecientes a los Ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que sean apresados por piratas, bien sea dentro de los limites de su jurisdiccion , ó en alta mar, y fueren llevados, ó hallados en los rios, radas , bahias, puertos, ó dominios de la otra, serán entregados á sus dueños, probando estos en la forma propia y debida sus derechos ante los Tribunales competentes ; bien entendido que el reclamo ha de hacerse dentro del termino de un año, por las mismas partes, sus apoderados ó Agentes de los respectivos Gobiernos.

ART . 8°.
Cuando algun buque perteneciente á los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, naufrague, encalle, ó sufra alguna averia, en las costas, ó dentro de los dominios de la otra, se les dará toda ayuda y proteccion, del mismo modo que es uso y costumbre, con los buques de la nacion en donde suceda la averia ; permitiendoles descargar el dicho buque (si fuere necesario de sus mercaderias y efectos , ) sin cobrar por esto hasta que sean esportados, ningun derecho, impuesto ó contribucion.

ART . 9°.
Los ciudadanos de cada una de las partes contratantes, tendran pleno Dodér para disponér de sus bienes personales dentro de la jurisdiccion

310

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

Citizens of sale, donation, testament, or otherwise, and their representatives, being each of the con. citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, tracting parties
shall have pow. whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession there-

er to dispose of of, either by themselves or others acting for them , and dispose of the

their personal goods within

same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the coun-

the jurisdiction try, wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.

of the other. And if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs would be prevented

from entering into the possession of the inheritance, on account of their

character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three

years to dispose of the same, as they may think proper, and to withdraw

the proceeds without molestation, and exempt from all rights of detrac-

tion, on the part of the government of the respective States.

ARTICLE 10th.

Special protec- Both the contracting parties promise and engage, formally to give

ttoiotnhteopbeersgoinvsen their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of and property of each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories subject to
the citizens of the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein,

tehitehteerrpraitrotryy, oifn leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice for their judicial

the other.

recourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary, with the

natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for whichthey

may employ in defence of their rights such advocates, solicitors, nota-

ries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at

law ; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which

may concern them, and likewise at the taking of all examinations and

evidence which may be exhibited in the said trials.

ARTICLE 11th.

Security of conscience to be enjoyed by citizens of both
the contracting parties, in the countries sub-
ject to the one and the other.

It is likewise agreed that the most perfect and entire security of conscience shall be enjoyed by the citizens of both the contracting parties in the countries subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other , without their being liable to be disturbed or molested on account of their religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages of the country. Moreover, the bodies of the citizens of one of the contracting parties, who may die in the territories of the other, shall be buried in the usual burying grounds, or in other decent and suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

ARTICLE 12th.

Citizens of

It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America

either party may sail with and of the Republic of Colombia to sail with their ships, with all man-

their ships from ner of liberty and security, no distinction being made, who are the pro-

any port to the places of those who now are or hereafter shall be at enmity with either of the contracting
parties.

prietors of the merchandises laden thereon, from any port to the places of those who now are or hereafter shall be at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It shall likewise be lawful for the citizens aforesaid to sail with the ships and merchandises beforementioned , and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports, and havens, of those who are enemies of both or either party , without any oposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places

of the enemy, beforementioned , to neutral places , but also from one

place belonging to an enemy to another place belonging to an enemy,

whether they be under the jurisdiction of one power or under several.

Free ships to make free
goods.

And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt , which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part

thereof should appertain to the enemics of either, contraband goods

being always excepted . Is is also agreed , in like manner, that the same

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824 .

311

de la otra, por venta, donacion , testamento, ó de otro modo ; y sus representantes, siendo ciudadanos de la otra parte, succederán á sus dichos bienes personales, ya sea por testamento ó ab intestato, y podran tomar posecion de ellos, ya sea por si mismos, ó por otros, que obren por ellos , y disponer de los mismos, segun su voluntad, pagando aquellas cargas solamente, que los habitantes del pais en donde estan los referidos bienes, estuvieren sujetos, á pagar en iguales casos. Y si en el caso de bienes raices, los dichos herederos fuesen impedidos de entrár en la posecion de la herencia por razon de su caracter de estrangeros, se les dará el termino de tres años, para disponer de ella como juzguen conveniente, y para estraér el producto sin molestia, y esentos de todo derecho de deduccion, por parte del Gobierno de los respectivos Estados.
ART . 10°.
Ambas partes contratantes se comprometen y obligan formalmente á dar su proteccion especial á las personas y propiedades de los ciudadanos de cada una reciprocamente transeuntes ó habitantes de todas ocupaciones, en los territorios sujetos á la jurisdiccion de una y otra, dejandoles abiertos y libres los Tribunales de justicia, para sus recursos judiciales, en los mismos terminos que son de uso y costumbre para los naturales ò Ciudadanos del pais en que residan ; para lo cual, podrán emplear en defensa de sus derechos aquellos Abogados, Procuradores, Escribanos, Agentes, ó Factores que juzguen conveniente, en todos sus asuntos y litigios ; y dichos ciudadanos ó Agentes tendrán la libre facultad de estar presentes en las decisiones y sentencias de los Tribunales, en todos los casos que les conciernan, como igualmente al tomar todos los examenes y declaraciones que se ofrezcan en los dichos litigios.
ART . 11°.
Se conviene igualmente en que los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes gozen la mas perfecta y entera seguridad de conciencia en los
paises sujetos á la jurisdiccion de una u otra, sin quedar por ello espuestos á ser inquietados ó molestados en razon de su creencia religiosa, mientras que respeten las leyes y usos establecidos. Ademas de esto, podrán sepultarse los cadaveres de los Ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que fallecieren en los territorios de la otra, en los cementerios acostumbrados, ó en otros lugares decentes, y adecuados, los cuales, serán protejidos contra toda violacion ó trastorno.
ART . 12°.
Será licito a los Ciudadanos de la Republica de Colombia, y de los Estados-Unidos de America navegar con sus buques, con toda seguridad y libertad, de cualquiera puerto á las plazas ó lugares de los que son ó fueren en adelante enemigos de cualquiera de las dos partes contratantes, sin hacerse distincion de quienes son los dueños de las mercaderias cargadas en ellos. Será igualmente licito á los referidos ciudadanos navegar con sus buques y mercaderias mencionadas y traficár con la misma libertad y seguridad, de los lugares, puertos y ensenadas de los enemigos de ambas partes, ó de alguna de ellas, sin ninguna oposicion , ó disturbio cualquiera, no solo directamente de los lugares de enemigo arriba mencionados á lugares neutros, sino tambien de un lugar perteneciente á un enemigo, á otro enemigo, ya sea que esten bajo la jurisdiccion de una potencia, ó bajo la de diversas. Y queda aqui estipulado, que los buques libres, dan tambien libertad á las mercaderias, y que se ha de considerar libre y esento todo lo que se hallare á bordo de los buques pertenecientes á los Ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes, aunque toda la carga ó parte de ella pertenezca á enemigos de una ú otra, eceptuando siempre los articulos de contrabando de guerra. Se conviene tambien del mismo modo, en que la misma libertad se

312

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemies : Provided , however, and it is hereby agreed, that the stipulations in this article contained, declaring that the flag shall cover the property, shall be understood as applying to those powers only who recognize this principle ; but if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover the property of enemies whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE 13th.

Neutral property found on board enemy's vessels, shall be hdeelrdedanads ecnoen-si-
my's property.

It is likewise agreed, that in the case where the neutral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the other, by virtue of the above stipulation, it shall always be under-
stood that the neutral property found on board such enemy's vessels shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and as such shall be liable to detention and confiscation, except such property as was put on

board such vessel before the declaration of war, or even afterwards, if

it were done without the knowledge of it ; but the contracting parties

agree, that two months having elapsed after the declaration , their citi-

zens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of

the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that case the goods and merchandises of the neutral, embarked in such enemy's ship , shall be free.

ARTICLE 14th.

Liberty ofnavigation and commerce to extend to all kinds of merchandise except
the following.

This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandises, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband, and under this name of contraband, or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended-
1st. Cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets , fuzees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears,

halberds, and granades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms ;

2dly. Bucklers, helmets, breast-plates, coats of mail, infantry belts, and clothes made up in the form and for a military use ;

3dly. Cavalry belts, and horses with their furniture ;

4thly. And generally all kinds of arms and instruments of iron , steel,

brass , and copper, or of any other materials manufactured, prepared, and formed, expressly to make war by sea or land.

ARTICLE 15th.

All other merchandise not
comprehended in the articles above enume.
rated,to be held as free.

All other merchandises and things not comprehended in the articles of contraband explicitly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce,
so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are at that time besieged or blocked up ; and, to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared that those

places only are besieged or blockaded which are actually attacked by a

belligerent force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral.

ARTICLE 16th.
The articles of contraband, before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

319

estienda á las personas que se encuentren á bordo de buques libres, con el fin de que aunque dichas personas sean enemigos de ambas partes ó de alguna de ellas, no deban ser estraidos de los buques libres, á menos que sean oficiales ó Soldados en actual servicio de los enemigos : á condicion no obstante, y se conviene aqui en esto, que las estipulaciones contenidas en el presente articulo, declarando que el Pabellon cubre la propiedad, se entenderán aplicables solamente á aquellas potencias que reconocen este principio ; pero si alguna de las dos partes contratantes, estuviere en guerra con una tercera, y la otra permaneciese neutrál , la bandera de la neutral cubrirá la propiedad de los enemigos, cuyos Gobiernos reconozcan este principio y no de otros.
ART . 13°.

Se conviene igualmente que en el caso de que la bandera neutrál de una de las partes contratantes protega las propiedades de los enemigos de la otra en virtud de lo estipulado arriba, deberá siempre entenderse, que las propiedades neutrales encontradas á bordo de tales buques enemigos, han de tenerse y considerarse como propiedades enemigas, y como tales, estarán sujetas á detencion, y confiscacion ; eseptuando solamente aquellas propiedades que hubiesen sido puestas à bordo de tales buques antes de la declaracion de la guerra, y aun despues, si hubiesen sido embarcadas en dichos buques, sin tenér noticia de la guerra, y se conviene, que pasados dos meses despues de la declaracion, los ciudadanos de una y otra parte no podrán alegár que la ignoraban. Por el contrario, si la bandera neutral, no protegiese las propiedades enemigas, entonces serán libres los efectos y mercaderias de la parte neutrál embarcadas en buques enemigos.

ART . 14°.
Esta libertad de navegacion y comercio se estenderá a todo genero de mercaderias, eceptuando aquellas solamente, que se distinguen con el nombre de contrabando, y bajo este nombre de contrabando ó efectos prohibidos se comprenderán :
1º. Cañones, morteros, obuces, pedreros, trabucos, mosquetes, fusiles, rifles, carabinas, pistolas , picas , espadas, sables, lanzas, chuzos, alabardas, y granadas, bombas, polvora, mechas, balas, con las demas cosas correspondientes al uso de estas armas.
2º. Escudos, casquetes, corazas, cotas, de malla, fornituras, y vestidos hechos en forma, y á usanza militar.
3°. Bandoleras, y caballos junto con sus armas y arneses. 4°. Y generalmente toda especie de armas, é instrumentos de hierro, acero, bronce, cobre, y otras materias cualesquiera, manufacturadas, preparadas, y formadas espresamente para hacér la guerra por mar, ó tierra.
ART . 15°.

Todas las demas mercaderias, y efectos no comprendidos en los articulos de contrabando esplicitamente enumerados, y clasificados en el articulo anterior, serán tenidos, y reputados por libres, y de licito y libre comercio, de modo, que ellos puedan sér transportados, y llevados de la manera mas libre, por los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes, aun á los lugares pertenecientes á un enemigo de una ú otra, eceptuando solamente aquellos lugares ó plazas, que están al mismo tiempo sitiadas ó bloqueadas y para evitar toda duda en el particulár, se declaran sitiadas ó bloqueadas áquellas plazas , que en la actualidad estuviesen átacadas por una fuerza de un beligerante capaz de impedir la entrada del neutral.
ART . 16°.

Los articulos de contrabando antes enumerados y clasificados, que se

hallen en un buque destinado á puerto enemigo estarán sujetos á deten-

VOL. VIII, 40

2B

814

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

Articles of contraband found
in a vessel bound to an
enemy's port,

detention and confiscation , leaving free the rest of the cargo and the ship, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high seas on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever the master,

tsohaclolnfbiescsautbijoenc.t captain, or supercargo of said vessel will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor , unless the quantity of such articles be so great,

and of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on board the capturing ship without great inconvenience ; but in this and in all other

cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest

convenient and safe port, for trial and judgement according to law.

ARTICLE 17th.

Vessels sailing for a port or place that is besieged, & c. , without notice
of the fact, may fbreotmursnuecdh apowraty or place.

And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is besieged, blockaded, or invested, it is agreed, that every vessel so circumstanced, may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after warning of such blockade or investment from the commanding
officer of the blockading forces, she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such

port before the same was actually besieged , blockaded or invested, by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo, nor if found therein after the reduction and surrender, shall such vessel or her

cargo be liable to confiscation, but they shall be restored to the owners thereof.

ARTICLE 18th.

Regulation of visits at sea.

In order to prevent all kind of disorder in the visiting and examination of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high seas, they have agreed mutually, that whenever a vessel of war, public or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain out of cannon shot , and may send its boat with two or three men only in order to execute the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion, violence, or ill treatment, for which the commanders of the said armed ships shall be responsible with their persons and property ; for which purpose the commanders of said private armed vessels shall , before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit. And it is expressly agreed that the neutral party shall in no case be required to go on board the examining vessel, for the purpose of exhibiting her papers, or for any other purpose whatever.

ARTICLE 19th .

Agreement
entered into, to avoid vexation in the examination of papers relative to the
ownership of vessels, & c.

To avoid all kind of vexation and abuse in the examination of the papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens of the two contracting parties, they have agreed , and do agree, that in case one of them should be engaged in war, the ships and vessels belonging to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea-letters or passports, expressing the name, property and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of said vessel, in order that it may thereby appear, that the ship really and truly belongs to the citizens of one of the parties ; they have likewise agreed that such ships being laden , besides the said sea-letters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates containing the several particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed , so that it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

315

on y confiscacion ; dejando libre el resto del cargamento y el buque para que los dueños puedan disponér de ellos como lo crean conveniente. Ningun buque de cualquiera de las dos Naciones, será detenido, por tenér á bordo articulos de contrabando, siempre que el Maestre, Capitan, ó Sobrecarga de dicho buque quiera entregár los articulos de contrabando al apresador , á menos que la cantidad de estos articulos sea tan grande y de tanto volumen, que no puedan sér recibidos á bordo del buque apresadór, sin grandes inconvenientes ; pero en este, como en todos los otros casos de justa detencion , el buque detenido será enviado al puerto mas inmediato, comodo, y seguro, para ser juzgado y sentenciado conforme á las leyes.
ART . 17°.
Y por cuanto frecuentemente sucede que los buques navegan para un puerto ó lugar perteneciente á un enemigo, sin saber que aquel esté sitiado, bloqueado ó envestido, se conviene en que todò buque en estas circumstancias se pueda hacer volver de dicho puerto, ó lugar ; pero no serà detenido, ni confiscada parte alguna de su cargamento, no siendo contrabando ; á menos que despues de la intimacion de semejante bloqueo ó ataque, por el comandante de las fuerzas bloqueadoras , intentase otra vez entrar ; pero le será permitido ir á qualquiera otro puerto ó lugar que juzque conveniente. Ni ningun buque de una de las partes, que haya entrado en semejante puerto, ó lugar, antes que estuviese sitiado, bloqueado, ó envestido por la otra, será impedido de dejar el tal lugar con su cargamento, ni si fuere hallado alli despues de la rendicion y entrega de semejante lugár, estará el tal buque ó su cargamento sujeto á confiscacion , sino que serán restituidos á sus dueños.
ART . 18°.
Para evitar todo genero de desorden en la visita, y examen de los buques y cargamentos de ambas partes contratantes en alta mar, han convenido mutuamente, que siempre que un buque de guerra, publico ó particular se emontrase con un neutral de la otra parte contratante, el primero permanecerá fuera de tiro de cañon, y podrá mandár su bote, con dos ó tres hombres solamente, para ejecutár el dicho examen de los papeles concernientes á la propiedad y carga del buque, sin ocasionár la menor estorcion, violencia ó, mal tratamiento, por lo que los comandantes del dicho buque armado serán responsables, con sus personas y bienes ; á cuyo efecto los comandantes de buques armados, por cuenta de particulares, estarán obligados antes de entregarseles sus comisiones ó patentes, á dar fianza suficiente para respondér de los perjuicios que causen. Y se ha convenido espresamente, que en ningun caso se exigira á la parte neutrál, que vaya á bordo del buque examinador con el fin de exibir sus papeles, ó para cualquiera otro objeto sea el que fuere.
ART . 19°.
Para evitar toda clase de vejamen y abuso en el examen de los papeles relativos á la propiedad de los buques pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes, han convenido y convienen , que encaso de que una de ellas estuviere en guerra, los buques, y bajeles pertenecientes á los ciudadanos, de la otra, serán provistos con letras de már, ó pasaportes, espresando el nombre, propiedad y tamaño del buque, como ambien el nombre y lugar de la residencia del Maestre, ó Comandante, á fin de que se vea que el buque, real y verdaderamente pertenece á los ciudadanos de una de las partes ; y han convenido igualmente, que estando cargados los espresados buques , ademas de las letras de mar, ó pasaportes, estarán tambien provistos de certificatos, que contengan los por menores del cargamento, y el lugar de donde salió el buque, para que asi pueda saberse, si hay á su bordo algunos efectos prohibidos ó de contrabando, cuyos certificatos serán hechos per los oficiales del lugár

316

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

whence the ship sailed, in the accustomed form ; without which requisites, said vessel may be detained to be adjudged by the competent tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.

ARTICLE 20th.

Stipulations relative to the visiting of vessels, shall apply only to those
owuhticchonsvaiolyw.ith

It is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed relative to the visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which sail without convoy ; and when said vessels shall be under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of honour, that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board , shall be sufficient.

Prize courts alone to take cognizance of prize causes.

ARTICLE 21st.
It is further agreed, that in all cases the established courts for prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal of either party shall pronounce judgment against any vessel or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall men tion the reasons or motives on which the same shall have been founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded, be delivered to the commander or agent of said vessel , without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.
ARTICLE 22d.

No citizen of either ofthe
ctioenstrsahacltlinagccpearp-t a commission, & c.

Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with another State, no citizen of the other contracting party shall accept a commission , or letter of marque, for the purpose of assisting or co-ope-
rating hostilely, with the said enemy, against the said party so at war, under the pain of being treated as a pirate.

ARTICLE 23d.

Six months allowed to merchants to remove, in case the two parties should be en-
gaged in war.

If, by any fatality which cannot be expected, and which God forbid, the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war with each other, they have agreed, and do agree, now for then, that there shall be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts and in the ports of each other ; and the term of one year to those who dwell in the interior, to arrange their business and transport their effects wherever

they please, giving to them the safe conduct necessary for it, which may

serve as a sufficient protection until they arrive at the designated port.

The citizens of all other occupations who may be established in the

territories or dominions of the United States and of the Republic of

Colombia, shall be respected and maintained in the full enjoyment of

their personal liberty and property, unless their particular conduct shall

cause them to forfeit this protection , which in consideration of humanity

the contracting parties engage to give them.

ARTICLE 24th.

Debts of individuals, in any event of war, not to be se-
questered.

Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation to the individuals of the other, nor shares, nor moneys, which they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall ever, in any event of war, or of national difference, be sequestered or confiscated.

ARTICLE 25th.
Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have agreed , and do agree, to grant to the envoys, ministers, and other public

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

317

de la procedencia del buque, en la forma acostumbrada, sin cuyos requisitos el dicho buque puede ser detenido, para ser juzgado por el Tribunal competente, y puede ser declarado buena presa, á menos que satisfagan, ó suplan el defecto con testimonios enteramente equivalentes.
ART . 20°.
Se ha convenido ademas, que las estipulaciones anteriores, relativas al examen y visita de buques, se aplicarán solamente á los que navegan sin conboy y que cuando los dichos buques estuvieren bajo de conboy, será bastante la declaracion verbal del Comandante del conboy, bajo su palabra de honór, de que los buques que están bajo su proteccion pertenecen a la nacion, cuya bandera llevan , y cuando se dirijen á un puerto enemigo, que los dichos buques no tienen á su bordo articulos de contrabando de guerra.
ART . 21°.
Se ha convenido ademas, que en todos los casos que ocurran, solo los Tribunales establecidos para causas de presas, en el pais á que las presas sean conducidas, tomarán conocimiento de ellas. Y siempre que semejante Tribunal de cualquiera de las partes, pronunciase sentencia contra algun buque, ó efectos, ó propiedad reclamado por los Ciudadanos de la otra parte, la sentencia ó decreto hará mencion de las razones ó motivos en que aquella se haya fundado, y se entregará sin demora alguna al comandante ó Agente de dicho buque, si lo solicitase, un testimonio autentico de la sentencia, ó decreto, ó de todo el proceso, pagando por èl los derechos legales.
ART . 22°.
Siempre que una de las partes contratantes estuviere empeñada en guerra, con otro Estado, ningun Ciudadano de la otra parte contratante aceptará una comision ó letra de marca para el objeto de ayudár ó cooperar hostilmente con el dicho enemigo, contra la dicha parte que esté asi en guerra, bajo la pena de ser tratado como pirata.
ART . 23°.
Si por alguna fatalidad , que no puede esperarse, y que Dios no permita, las dos partes contratantes se viesen empeñadas en guerra una con otra, han convenido y convienen de ahora para entonces, que se concederá el termino de seis meses á los comerciantes residentes en las costas y en los puertos de entrambas, y el termino de un año á los que habitan en el interior, para arreglar sus negocios, y transportár sus efectos á donde quieran, dandoles el salvo conducto necesario para ello, que les sirva de suficiente proteccion hasta que lleguen al puerto que designen. Los Ciudadanos de otras ocupaciones, que se hallen establecidos en los territorios ó dominios de la Republica de Colombia , ó los Estados-Unidos de America, serán respetados, y mantenidos en el pleno goze de su libertad personal y propiedad, á menos que su conducta particular les haga perdér esta proteccion, que en consideracion á la humanidad, las partes contratantes se comprometen á prestarles.
ART . 24°.
Ni las deudas contraidas por los individuos de una Nacion , con los individuos, de la otra, ni las acciones ó dineros, que puedan tenér en los fondos publicos , ó en los bancos publicos , ó privados, serán jamas secuestrados ó confiscados en ningun caso de guerra , ó diferencia nacional.
ART . 25°.
Deseando ambas partes contratantes, evitar toda diferencia, relativa í etiqueta en sus comunicaciones, y correspondencias diplomaticas han convenido asi mismo, y convienen en conceder á sus Enviados , Minis-
2 B2

318

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

Same favors to be granted to envoys, & c., as
are enjoyed by those of the most favored nations.

agents, the same favours, immunities, and exemptions, which those of the most favoured nation do or shall enjoy ; it being understood that whatever favours, immunities, or privileges, the United States of America or the Republic of Colombia may find it proper to give to the ministers and public agents of any other power, shall by the same act be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

ARTICLE 26th.
The contract- To make more effectual the protection which the United States and ingparties agree the Republic of Colombia shall afford in future to the navigation and to admit consuls into all the ports commerce ofthe citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit open to foreign consuls and vice-consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who commerce, & c. shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, of the
consuls and vice-consuls of the most favoured nation ; each contracting
party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such consuls may not seem con venient.

ARTICLE 27th.

Consuls, be-

In order that the consuls and vice-consuls of the two contracting

fore entering on
tthheeirexfeurnccitsieonosf, shall exhibit their commission, & c.

parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, which be long to them, by their public character, they shall, before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent in due form to the government to which they are accredited ; and having obtained their Exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such by all the authorities, magistrates, and inhabitants, in the consular district in which they reside.

ARTICLE 28th.

Consuls, and persons attached to their ser. vice, shall be
exempt from all public service , & c.

It is likewise agreed, that the consuls, their secretaries, officers, and persons attached to the service of consuls, they not being citizens of the country in which the consul resides, shall be exempt from all public service, and also from all kind of taxes, imposts , and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce, or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and

foreign, of the country in which they reside are subject, being in every thing besides subject to the laws of the respective States. The archives

and papers of the consulates shall be respected inviolably, and under

no pretext whatever shall any magistrate seize , or in any way interfere with them.

Consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities for
tohfedaersreerstte,rs&, c. &c.

ARTICLE 29th.
The said consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country for the arrest, detention , and custody of deserters from the public and private vessels of their country, and for that purpose they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers, of the vessel's or ship's roll, or other public documents, that those men were part of the said crews ; and on this demand, so proved , ( saving, however, where the contrary is proved , ) the delivery shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested , shall be put at the disposal of the said consuls, and may be put in the public prisons at the request and expense of those who reclaim them, to be sent to the ships to which they belonged , or to others of the same nation. But if they be not sent back within two months , to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

319

tros, y otros Agentes Diplomaticos, los mismos favores, inmunidades, y esenciones de que gozan, ó gozaren en lo venidero los de las naciones mas favorecidas, bien entendido que cualquier favór, inmunidad ó privilegio, que la Republica de Colombia ó los Estados Unidos de America, tengan por conveniente dispensár á los Enviados, Ministros, y Agentes Diplomaticos de otras Potencias, se haga por el mismo hecho estensivo á los de una y otra de las partes contratantes.
ART . 26°.
Para hacer mas efectiva la proteccion , que la Republica de Colombia, y los Estados-Unidos de America , darán en adelante á la navegacion y comercio de los ciudadanos de una y otra, se convienen en recibir y admitir Consules, y Vice-Consules en todos los puertos abiertos al comercio estrangero, quienes gozarán en ellos todos los derechos, prerrogativas é inmunidades de los Consules, y Vice-Consules de la nacion mas favorecida, quedando no obstante en libertad cada parte contratante, para eceptuar aquellos puertos y lugares en que la admision y residencia de semejantes Consules, y Vice Consules no parezca conveniente.
ART . 27°.
Para que los Consules, y Vice-Consules de las dos partes contratantes, puedan gozar los derechos, prerrogativas, é inmunidades, que les correspoden por su caracter publico, antes de entrar en el ejercicio de sus funciones, presentarán su comision ó patente en la forma debida, al Gobierno con quien esten acreditados, y habiendo obtenido el exequatur, serán tenidos, y considerados como tales, por todas las autoridades, majistrados y habitantes del distrito Consular en que residan.
ART . 28°.
Se ha convenido igualmente, que los Consules, sus Secretarios, officiales y personas agregadas al servicio de los consulados ( no siendo estas personas ciudadanos del pais en que el Consul reside) estarán esentos de todo servicio publico, y tambien de toda especie de pechos, impuestos, y contribuciones, eceptuando aquellas que esten obligados á pagar por razon de comercio, ó propiedad, y á las cuales estan sujetos los Ciudadanos, y habitantes naturales, y estrangeros del pais en que residen, quedando en todo lo demas, sujetos a las leyes de los respectivos Estados. Los archivos y papeles de los consulados serán respetados inviolablemente, y bajo ningun pretesto los ocupará magistrado alguno, ni tendrá en ellos ninguna intervencion.
ART . 29°.
Los dichos Consules tendrán podér de requerir el auxilio de las autoridades locales , para la prision, detencion y custodia de los desertores de buques, publicos y particulares de su pais, y para este objeto se dirigirán á los Tribunales, Jueces, y oficiales competentes, y pedirán los dichos desertores por escrito, probando por una presentacion de los registros de los buques, rol del equipage, u otros documentos publicos, que aquellos hombres eran parte de las dichas tripulaciones, y á esta demanda asi probada ( menos no obstante cuando seprobare lo contrario) no se reusará la entrega. Semejantes desertores, luego que sean arrestados, se pondrán á disposicion de los dichos Consules, y puedan ser depositados en las prisiones publicas, a solicitud y espensas de los que los reclamen, para ser enviados á los buques á que corresponden, ó á otros de la misma nacion. Pero si nó fueren mandados dentro de dos meses contados des de el dia de su arresto, serán puestos en libertad, y no volverán a ser presos por la misma causa.

320

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824.

ARTICLE 30th.

Further agree. ment of the
contracting parties.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter as circumstances will permit them, to form a consular convention, which shall declare specially the powers and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the respective parties.

ARTICLE 31st.

Contracting
ptahretifeosllaogwrienegto points.

The United States of America and the Republic of Colombia, de. siring to make as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties by virtue of this Treaty, or General Convention of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :

1st. The present Treaty shall remain in full force and virtue for the term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, in all the parts relating to commerce and navigation ; and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship , it shall be permanently and perpetually binding on both powers.
2dly. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this Treaty, such citizen shall be held personally responsible for the same, and the harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby ; each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

3dly. If, (what, indeed, cannot be expected, ) unfortunately, any of

the articles contained in the present Treaty shall be violated or infringed in any other way whatever, it is expressly stipulated , that neither of the

contracting parties will order or authorize any acts of reprisal, nor de-

clare war against the other, on complaints of injuries or damages, until

the said party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by compe-

tent proof, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

4thly. Nothing in this Treaty contained shall, however, be construed, or operate contrary to former and existing public Treaties with other

Sovereigns or States.

To be approv The present Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation , ed and ratified shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of

by the contract ing parties, and

America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and

ratifications ex- by the President of the Republic of Colombia, with the consent and

changed, within approbation of the Congress of the same, and the ratifications shall be eight months. exchanged in the City of Washington within eight months, to be count-

ed from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, We, the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, and of the Republic of Colombia, have signed and sealed these presents.

Done in the City of Bogota, on the third day of October , in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-four, in the forty-ninth year of the Independence of the United States of America, and the fourteenth of that of the Republic of Colombia.

RICHARD CLOUGH ANDERSON JR. (L. s.)

PEDRO GUAL,

(L. S. )

CONVENTION WITH COLOMBIA. 1824 .

321

ART . 30°.
Para protegér mas efectivamente su comercio y navegacion, las dos partes contratantes se convienen en formar luego que las circumstancias lo permitan, una Convencion Consulár, que declare mas especialmente los poderes é inmunidades de los Consules y Vice Consules de las partes respectivas.
ART . 31°.
La Republica de Colombia y los Estados-Unidos de America, deseando hacer tan duraderas y firmes ; como las circumstancias lo permitan las relaciones que han de establecerse entre las dos Potencias, en virtud del presente tratado ó convencion general de paz, amistad, navigacion y commercio, han declarado solennemente y convienen en los puntos siguientes :
1°. El presente tratado permanecerá en su fuerza y vigor por el termino de doce años contados desde el dia del cange de las ratificaciones, en todos los puntos concernientes á comercio y navegacion, y en todos los demas puntos que se refieren á paz y amistad, será permanente, y perpetuamente obligatorio para ambas potencias.
2º. Si alguno, ó algunos de los Ciudadanos de una ú otra parte infringiesen alguno de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, dichos ciudadanos serán personalmente responsables, sin que por esto se interrumpa la harmonia y buena correspondencia entre las dos Naciones, comprometiendose cada una á no protegér de modo alguno al ofensor, ó sanctionár semejante violacion.
3°. Si (lo que á la verdad no puede esperarse) desgraciadamente, alguno de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, fuesen en alguna otra manera violados, ó infringidos, se estipula espresamente que ninguna de las dos partes contratantes, ordenará, ó autorizará ningunos actos de represalia, ni declarará la guerra contra la otra por quejas de injurias, ó daños hasta que la parte que se crea ofendida, haya antes presentado á la otra una esposicion de aquellas injurias, ó daños, verificada con pruebas y testimonios competentes, exigiendo justicia y satisfaccion, y esto haya sido negado, ó diferido sin razon.
4°. Nada de cuanto se contiene en el presente tratado, se construirá sin embargo, ni obrará, en contra de otros tratados publicos anteriores, y existentes con otros soberanos ó Estados.
El presente tratado de paz, amistad, navegacion , y comercio, será ratificado por el Presidente ó Vice Presidente de la Republica de Colombia, encargado del poder Ejecutivo con consentimiento y aprobacion del Congreso de la misma, y por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, con consejo, y consentimiento del Senado de los mismos ; y las ratificaciones serán cangeadas en la Ciudad de Washington dentro de ocho meses contados desde este dia ó antes si fuese posible.

En fe de lo cual nosotros los Plenipotenciarios de la Republica de
Colombia, y de los Estados Unidos de America hemos firmado y sellado las presentes.

Dadas en la Ciudad de Bogota el dia tres de Octubre del año del Señor mil ocho cientos veinticuatro, decimo cuarto de la indepen-

dencia de la Republica de Colombia y cuadragesimo nono de la de los Estados-Unidos de America.

Firmado.

PEDRO GUAL,

(L. s.)

RICHARD CLOUGH ANDERSON, JR. (L. s.)

VOL VIII. 41

GENERAL CONVENTION OF PEACE, AMITY , COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION,

Dec. 5, 1825. Between the United States of America, and the Federation

Ratified on the
2d Aug. 1826. Proclamation ofthe President
of the U. S., Oct. 28, 1826.

of the Centre of America.
THE United States of America, and the Federation of the Centre of America, desiring to make firm and permanent the peace and friendship which happily prevails between both nations, have resolved to fix, in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall in future be

religiously observed between the one and the other, by means of a

Persons ap-
pointed to conclude a treaty.

Treaty, or General Convention of Peace, Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation.
For this most desirable object, the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on HENRY CLAY, their Secretary of State ; and the Executive power of the Federation of the Centre of America on ANTONIO JOSE CAÑAS, a Deputy of the Constituent National

Assembly for the Province of San Salvador, and Envoy Extraordinary

and Minister Plenipotentiary of that Republic, near the United States, who, after having exchanged their said full powers in due and proper

form, have agreed to the following articles :

Peace and friendship.

ARTICLE 1st.
There shall be a perfect, firm, and inviolable peace, and sincere friendship between the United States of America and the Federation of the Centre of America, in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between their people and Citizens, respectively, without distinction of persons or places.

ARTICLE 2d.

Agree not to
gcrualnatr faanvyorpatroti other nations , in respect of commerce, &c.

The United States of America, and the Federation of the Centre of America, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other Nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all, engage mutually not to grant any particular favour to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation , which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE 3d.

The citizens

The two high contracting parties, being likewise desirous of placing

ofeach may fre- the commerce and navigation of their respective countries on the liberal quent all the coasts, & c. of basis of perfect equality and reciprocity, mutually agree that the citizens
the other, & c. of each may frequent all the coasts and countries of the other, and

reside and trade there, in all kinds of produce, manufactures, and mer-

chandize, and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions

in navigation and commerce, which native citizens do or shall enjoy

submitting themselves to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established,

to which native citizens are subjected . But it is understood that this article does not include the coasting trade of either country, the regu

lation of which is reserved by the parties, respectively, according to

their own separate laws.

(322)

CONVENCION GENERAL DE PAZ, AMISTAD, COMERCIO, Y NAVEGACION,

Entre la Federacion de Centro-America i los EstadosUnidos de America.

LA Federacion de Centro-America i los Estados-Unidos de America, deseando hacer firme i permanente la paz i amistad que felizmente existe entre ambas Potencias, han resuelto fijar de Una manera clara, distinta y positiva, las reglas, que deben observar religiosamente en lo venidero, por medio de un Tratado ó Convencion General de Paz, Amistad, Comercio, y Navegacion.

Con este muy deseable objeto, el Poder Executivo de la Federacion

de Centro-America, ha conferido plenos poderes à ANTONIO JOSE

CAÑAS , diputado de la Asemblea Nacional Constituyente por la Pro-

vincia de San Salvador, i Enviado Extraordinario i Ministro Plenipo-

tenciario de la aquella Republica cerca de los Estados Unidos, y el

Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, á HENRICO CLAY, SU

Secretario de Estado, quienes despues de haber canjeado sus espresados

plenos poderes en debida i buena forma, han convenido en los articulos

siguientes :

ART . 1°.

Habra una paz, perfecta, firmé, inviolable y amistad sincera entre la Federacion de Centro-America i los Estados-Unidos de America, en toda la estencion de sus posesiones i territorios, i entre sus Pueblos i Ciudadanos respectivamente sin distincion de personas, ni lugares.

ART . 2º.
La Federacion de Centro-America, i los Estados Unidos de America, deseando vivir en paz i harmonia con las demas Naciones de la tierra, por medio de una politica franca, é igualmente amistosa con todas, se obligan mutuamente à no conceder favores particulares à otras naciones, con respecto a comercio i navegacion , que no se hagan inmediatamente comun à una ù otra quien gozarà de los mismos libremente, si la concesion fuese hecha libremente ó prestando la misma compensacion, si la concesion fuere condicional.
ART . 3°.
Las dos altas partes contratantes deseando tambien establecer el comercio y navagacion de sus respectivos paises sobre las liberales bases de perfecta igualidad y reciprocidad, convienen mutuamente que los Ciudadanos de cada una podran frecuentar todas las costas y paises de la otra y residir i traficar en ellos con toda clase de producciones, manufacturas, i mercaderias, i gozeran de todos los derechos, privilegios y esempciones con respecto à navegacion i comercio que gozan ò gozaren los Ciudadanos nativos, sometiendose à las leyes, decretos è usos establecidos à que estan sujetos dichos Ciudadanos nativos. Pero debe entenderse que este articulo no comprende el comercio de costa de cada uno de los dos paises, cuya regulacion es reservada à las partes respectivamente, segun sus propias i peculiares leyes.
(323)

324

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

ARTICLE 4th.

Further agreement with re-
dguacred,t&o tch.eopfroeach other.

They likewise agree, that whatever kind of produce, manufacture of merchandize, of any foreign country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the United States, in their own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the Federation of the Centre of America ; and

that no higher or other duties, upon the tonnage of the vessel, or her

cargo, shall be levied and collected, whether the importation be made in vessels of the one country, or of the other. And in like manner,

that whatever kind of produce, manufactures, or merchandize, of any

foreign country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the

Central Republic, in its own vessels, may be also imported in vessels

of the United States, and that no higher or other duties, upon the tonnage of the vessel, or her cargo, shall be levied and collected, whether

the importation be made in vessels of the one country, or of the other. And they further agree, that whatever may be lawfully exported, or

re-exported, from the one country, in its own vessels, to any foreign country, may in like manner, be exported or re-exported , in the vessels

of the other country. And the same bounties, duties, and drawbacks , shall be allowed and collected , whether such exportation, or re-exporta-

tion, be made in vessels of the United States, or of the Central

Republic.

ARTICLE 5th.

Regulation of duties.

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the Federation of the Centre of America, and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the Federation of the Centre of America, of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the United States, than are or shall be, payable on the like articles, being the produce or manufactures of any other foreign country ; nor shall any higher or other duties, or charges, be imposed in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles to the United States, or to the Federation of the Centre of America, respectively, than such as are payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country : nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the United States, or of the Federation of the Centre of America, to or from the Territories of the United States, or to or from the Territories of the Federation of the Centre of America, which shall not equally extend to all other Nations.

ARTICLE 6th.

Furtheragree. It is likewise agreed that it shall be wholly free for all merchants,

ment.

commanders of ships, and other citizens, of both countries, to manage,

themselves, their own business, in all the ports and places subject to the

jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and sale of their goods and merchandize, by wholesale or retail, as with respect to the loading, unloading and sending off, their ships ; they

being, in all these cases, to be treated as citizens of the country in which they reside, or at least to be placed on a footing with the subjects or citizens of the most favoured nation.

ARTICLE 7th.

Citizens ofnei- The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to

ther party to be Jiable to any

any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels, cargoes, merchandize,

embargo, &c. or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any public or private pur-

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

325

ART . 4°.
Igualmente convienen, que cualquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ò mercaderias estrangeras que puedan ser, en cualquier tiempo, legalmente introducidas en la Republica Central en sus propios buques, puedan tambien ser introducidas en los buques de los Estados Unidos ; i que no se impondran ò cobraran otros ò mayores derechos de tonelada ò por el cargamento, ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ò de la otra. De la misma manera que cualesquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ò mercaderias estrangeras que pueden ser en cualquier tiempo legalmente introducidas en los Estados Unidos en sus propios buques, puedan tambien ser introducidas en los buques de la Federacion de Centro-America ; i que no se impondran ò cobraran otros ò mayores derechos de tonelada ò por el cargamento ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ò de la otra. Convienen ademas, que todo lo que pueda ser legalmente esportado ò re-esportado de uno de los dos paises, en sus buques propios para un pais estranjero pueda de la misma manera ser esportado ò re-esportado en los buques de el otro. Y los mismos derechos, premios ò descuentos se concederan i cobraran ya sea que tal exportacion, ò re-exportacion se haga en los buques de la Republica Central ò de los Estados-Unidos.
ART . 5°.
No se impondran otros ò mayores derechos sobre la importacion de cualquier articulo, produccion o manufactura de los Estados-Unidos en la Federacion de Centro-America, i no se impondran otros ò mayores derechos sobre la importacion de cualquier articulo, produccion ò manufactura de los Estados Unidos en la Federacion de Centro-America, i no se impondran otros ò mayores derechos sobre la importacion de cualquier articulo, produccion ò manufactura de la Federacion de Centro-America en los Estados Unidos, que los que se pagan ò pagaren en adelante por iguales articulos, produccion ò manufactura de cualquiera pais estrangero : ni se impondran otros ò mayores derechos ò cargas en cualquiera de los dos paises sobre la esportacion de cualesquiera articulos para la Federacion de Centro- America ò para los Estados-Unidos respectivamente, que los que se pagan ò pagaren en adelante por la esportacion de iguales articulos para cualquiera otro pais estrangero ; ni se establecera prohivicion sobre la importacion d esportacion de cualesquiera articulos, produccion ó manufactura de los territorios de la Federacion de Centro-America para los de los Estados Unidos, ò de los territorios de los Estados Unidos para los de la Federacion de Centro- America, que no sea igualmente estensiva á las otras naciones.
ART . 6°.
Se conviene ademas, que serà enteramente libre i permitido, a los comerciantes, comandantes de buques i otros Ciudadanos de ambos paises el manejar sus negocios, por si mismos, en todos los puertos i lugares sujetos à la jurisdiccion de uno ù otro, asi respecto à las consignaciones i ventas por mayor i menor de sus efectos i mercaderias, como de la carga, descarga i despacho de sùs buques, debiendo en todos estos casos, ser tratados como Ciudadanos del pais en que residan , ò al menos puestos sobre un pie igual con los subditos ò Ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas.
ART . 7°.
Los Ciudadanos de una ù otra parte, no podràn ser embargados ni detenidos con sus embarcaciones, tripulaciones, mercaderias, i efectos comerciales de su pertenencia, para alguna espedicion militar, usos
2C

326

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

pose whatever, without allowing to those interested a sufficient indemnification .

ARTICLE 8th.

Protection to
bzeengsiovfenetaochcitiother, when in distress.

Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports, or dominions, of the other, with their vessels, whether merchant or of war, public or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to them all favour and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provisions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.

ARTICLE 9th.

All ships, & c. belonging to either party,
captured by pirates, &c. to be
tdehleiovewrneedrus.p to

All the ships, merchandize, and effects, belonging to the citizens of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates, whether within the limits of its jurisdiction or on the high seas, and may be carried or found in the rivers, roads, bays, ports, or dominions, of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving, in due and proper form, their rights, before the competent tribunals ; it being well understood that the claim should be made within the term of one

year by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of the respective governments.
ARTICLE 10th.

Assistance to When any vessel belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting
be given to each parties shall be wrecked, foundered, or shall suffer any damage on the other, in cases ofwreck, & c. coasts, or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to
them all assistance and protection , in the same manner which is usual
and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens,
permitting them to unload the said vessel , if necessary , of its merchan-
dize and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or contribu-
tion whatever, until they may be exported.

ARTICLE 11th.

Citizens of ei- The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to

tdhisepropsaertoyf mthaeyir
personal goods dwiictthiionntohfetjhureis
other, by sale, & c.

dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation , testament, or otherwise, and their representatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof, either by themselves or others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country, wherein said goods are , shall be subject to pay in like cases : And if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs would be prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance, on account of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years to dispose of the same, as they may think proper, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation, and exempt from all duties of detraction, on the part of the government of the respective States.

ARTICLE 12th.

Contracting
tpoargtiivese pthreoimrise special protection to the persons, & c. of citizens of each other.

Both the contracting parties promise and engage formally to give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories, subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice for their judicial recourse , on the same terms which are usual and customary with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which they may employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries , agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

327

publicos, oparticulares cualesquiera que sean, sin conceder à los interesados una suficiente indemnizacion.
ART . 8°.
Siempre que los Ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratrantes se vieren precisados à buscàr refujio, ò asilo en los rios, bahias, puertos, ò dominios de la otra, con sus buques, ya sean mercantes, ò de guerra, publicos ò particulares, por mal tiempo, persecucion de piratas ò enemigos, seràn recibidos i tratados con humanidad, dandoles todo favor i proteccion, para reparar sus buques, procurar viveres, i ponerse en situacion de continuar su viaje, sin obstaculo ò estorbo de ningun genero.

ART . 9°.
Todos los buques, mercaderias i efectos pertenecientes a los Ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que sean apresados por piratas, bien sea dentro de los limites de su jurisdiccion , ò en alta mar , i fueren llevados, ò hallados en los rios, radas, bahias, puertos, ò dominios de la otra, serán entregados à sus dueños, probando estos en la forma propia i debida sus derechos ante los Tribunales competentes ; bien entendido que el reclamo ha de hacerse dentro del termino de un año, por las mismas partes, sus apoderados ò Agentes de los respectivos Gobiernos.
ART . 10°.
Cuando algun buque perteneciente à los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, naufrague, encalle, ò sufra alguna averia, en las costas, ò dentro de los dominios de la otra, se les dara toda ayuda i proteccion, del mismo modo que es uso y costumbre, con los buques de la nacion en donde suceda la averia : permitiendoles descargar el dicho buque ( si fuere necesario) de sus mercaderias i efectos, sin cobrar por esto hasta que sean esportados, ningun derecho, impuesto è contribucion.

ART . 11°.
Los ciudadanos de cada una de las partes contratantes, tendràn pleno poder para disponer de sus bienes personales dentro de la jurisdiccion de la otra, por venta, donacion, testamento, ò de otro modo ; i sus representantes, siendo ciudadanos de la otra parte, succederàn à sus dichos bienes personales, ya sea por testamento ò ab intestato, i podran tomar posesion de ellos , ya sea por si mismos ò por otros, que obren por ellos, i disponer de los mismos, segun su voluntad, pagando aquellas cargas, solamente, que los habitantes del pais en donde estan los referidos bienes, estuvieren sujetos à pagar en iguales casos. Y si en el caso de bienes raices, los dichos herederos fuesen impedidos de entrar en la posesion de la herencia par razon de su caracter de estrangeros, se les dará el termino de tres años, para disponer de ella como juzguen conveniente, i para estraer el producto sin molestia, i esentos de todo derecho de deduccion, por parte del Gobierno de los respectivos Estados.
ART . 12°.
Ambas partes contratantes se comprometen i obligan formalmente à dar su proteccion especial à las personas y propiedades de los ciudadanos.
de cada una reciprocamente transeuntes ò habitantes de todas ocupaciones, en los territorios sujetos à la jurisdiccion de una i otra, dejandoles abiertos i libres los tribunales de justicia, para sus recursos judiciales , en los mismos terminos que son de uso i costumbre para los naturales ò ciudadanos del pais en que residan : para lo cual , podràn emplear en defensa de sus derechos aquellos Abogados, Procuradores, Escribanos, Agentes, ò Factores que juzguen conveniente, en todos sus

328

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

at law; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals , in all cases which may concern them , and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited in the said trials.

ARTICLE 13th.

Security of

It is likewise agreed, that the most perfect and entire security of con-

conscience tobe science shall be enjoyed by the citizens of both the contracting parties

eznenjsoyoefdbboythciti in the country subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other, with-

parties.

out their being liable to be disturbed or molested on account of their

religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages of the country. Moreover, the bodies of the citizens of one of the

contracting parties, who may die in the territories of the other , shall be

buried in the usual burying grounds, or in other decent and suitable

places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

Citizens of both parties to sail with their ships, with all manner of lib. erty and security.
Proviso.

ARTICLE 14th.
It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America
and ofthe Federation of the Centre of America to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made who are the proprietors of the merchandize laden thereon, from any port, to the places of those who now are or hereafter shall be at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It shall likewise he lawful for the citizens aforesaid to sail with the ships and merchandize before mentioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports, and havens, of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy, before mentioned, to neutral places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of one power or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt, which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed, in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemy : Provided however, and it is hereby agreed, that the stipulations in this article contained , declaring that the flag shall cover the property, shall be understood as applying to those Powers only who recognise this principle ; but if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover the property of enemies whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE 15th.

Further agreement.

It is likewise agreed, that, in the case where the neutral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the other, by virtue of the above stipulation , it shall always be understood that the neutral property found on board such enemy's vessels shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and as such shall be liable to detention and confiscation , except such property as was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war, or even afterwards, ifit

were done without the knowledge of it ; but the contracting parties agree, that two months having elapsed after the declaration , their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA . 1825.

329

asuntos i litigios ; i dichos ciudadanos ò Agentes tendràn la libre facultad de estar presentes en las decisiones i sentencias de los Tribunales, en todos los casos que les conciernan, como igualmente al tomar todos los examenes i declaraciones que se ofrezcan en los dichos litigios.

ART . 13°.

Se conviene igualmente en que los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes gozen la mas perfecta i entera seguridad de conciencia en los paises sujetos à la jurisdiccion de una ù otra, sin quedar por ello espuestos à ser inquietados ò molestados en razon de su creencia religiosa, mientras que respeten las leyes i usos establecidos. Ademas de esto, podrán sepultarse los cadaveres de los ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que fallecieren en los territorios de la otra, en los cementerios acostumbrados, ò en otros lugares decentes, i adecuados, los cuales, seràn protejidos contra toda violacion ò trastorno.

ART . 14°.
Sera licito a los ciudadanos de la Federacion de Centro-America, i de los Estados-Unidos de America, navegar con sus buques, con toda seguridad i libertad, de cualquiera puerto à las plazas ò lugares de los que son ò fueren en adelante enemigos de cualquiera de las dos partes contratantes, sin hacerse distincion de quienes son los dueños de las mercaderias cargados en ellos. Serà igualmente licito à los referidos ciudadanos navegar con sus buques i mercaderias mencionadas i traficar con la misma libertad i seguridad, de los lugares, puertos i enseñadas de los enemigos de ambas partes, ò de alguna de ellas, sin ninguna oposicion, ò disturbio cualquiera, no solo directamente de los lugares de enemigo arriba mencionados à lugares neutros, sino tambien de un lugar perteneciente à un enemigo, à otro enemigo, ya sea que esten bajo la jurisdiccion de una potencia, ò bajo la de diversas. Y queda aqui estipulado, que los buques libres, dan tambien libertad à las mercaderias, i
que se ha de considerar libre i esento todo lo que se hallare à bordo de los buques pertenecientes à los ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes, aunque toda la carga ò parte de ella pertenezca à enemigos de una ù otra, eceptuando siempre los articulos de contrabando de guerra. Se conviene tambien del mismo modo, en que la misma libertad se estienda à las personas que se encuentren à bordo de buques libres, con el fin de que aunque dichas personas sean enemigos de ambas partes ò de alguna de ellas, no deban ser estraidos de los buques libres, à memos que sean oficiales ò soldados en actual servicio de los enemigos : à condicion no obstante, i se conviene aqui en esto, que las estipulaciones contenidas en el presente articulo, declarando que el Pabellon cubre la propiedad , se entenderán applicables solamente à aquellas potencias que reconocen este principio ; pero si alguna de las dos partes contratantes, estuviere en guerra con una tercera, i la otra permaneciese neutral, la bandera de la neutral cubrirà la propiedad de los enemigos , cuyos Gobiernos reconozcan este principio i no de otros.
ART . 15°.

Se conviene igualmente que en el caso de que la bandera neutral de

una de las partes contratantes protega las propiedades de los enemigos de la otra en virtud de lo estipulado arriba, deberà siempre entenderse,

que las propiedades neutrales encontradas à bordo de tales buques

enemigos, han de tenerse i considerarse como propiedades enemigas, i

como tales, estaràn sujetas à detencion , i confiscacion , eseptuando sola-

mente aquellas propiedades que hubiesen sido puestas à bordo de tales

buques antes de la declaracion de la guerra, i aun despues, si hubiesen sido embarcadas en dichos buques, sin tener noticia de la guerra ; i se

conviene, que pasados dos meses despues de la declaracion , los ciuda-

VOL. VIII. 42

2c2

330

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that case the goods and merchandize of the neutral , embarked in such enemy's ships, shall be free.

ARTICLE 16th.

Liberty ofnavigation and commerce to extend to all kinds of merchandise except
the following.

This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandize, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband, and under this name of contraband, or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended-
1st. Cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets, fuzees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberds, and granades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms ;
2dly. Bucklers, helmets, breast plates, coats of mail, infantry belts and clothes, made up in the form and for a military use ;
3dly. Cavalry belts and horses, with their furniture ; 4thly. And generally all kinds of arms and instruments of iron, steel, brass, and copper, or of any other materials manufactured , prepared, and formed, expressly to make war by sea or land.

ARTICLE 17th.

All other merchandise not comprehended in the articles above cnume.
raastferde,et.o be held

All other merchandize and things not comprehended in the articles of contraband explicitly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce, so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, ex-
cepting only those places which are at that time besieged or blockaded :

and, to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared that those places

only are besieged or blockaded which are actually attacked by a belli-

gerent force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral .

ARTICLE 18th.

Articles of contraband to
be subject to detention and confiscation.

The articles of contraband , before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation , leaving free the rest of the cargo and the ship, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high seas on account of having on board articles of contraband , whenever the master, captain, or supercargo, of said vessels will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor, unless the quantity of such articles be so great and of so large a bulk that they cannot be received on board the capturing ship without great inconvenience ; but, in this and in all other cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest convenient and safe port, for trial and judgment, according to law.

ARTICLE 19th.

Further agree. ment.

And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is besieged, blockaded, or invested , it is agreed, that every vessel so circumstanced may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after warning of such blockade or investment, from the commanding officer of the blockading forces, she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such port before the same was actually besieged , blockaded ,

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

331

danos de una i otra parte no podràn alegar que la ignoraban. Por el contrario, si la bandera neutral, no protegiese las propiedades enemigas, entonces seran libres los efectos i mercaderias de la parte neutral, embarcados en buques enemigos.
ART . 16°.
Esta libertad de navegacion i comercio se estenderà à todo genero de mercaderias, eceptuando aquellas solamente, que se distinguen con el nombre de contrabando, i bajo este nombre, de contrabando ò efectos prohibidos se comprenderàn :
1º. Cañones, morteros, obuces, pedreros, trabucos, mosquetes, fusiles, rifles, carabinas, pistolas, picas, espadas, sables, lanzas, chuzos, alabardas, i granadas, bombas, polvora, mechas, balas, con las demas cosas correspondientes al uso de estas armas.
2º. Escudos, casquetes, corazas, cotas de malla, fornituras, i vestidos hechos en forma, i á usanza militar.
3°. Bandoleras, i caballos junto con sus armas i arneses. 4°. Y generalmente toda especie de armas, è instrumentos de hierro, acero, bronce, cobre, i otras materias cualesquiera, manufacturadas, preparadas, i formadas espresamente para hacer la guerra por mar, ò tierra.
ART . 17°.
Todas las demas mercaderias, i efectos no comprendidos en los articulos de contrabando esplicitamente enumerados, i clasificados en el articulo anterior, seràn tenidos, i reputados por libres, i de licito i libre comercio, de modo, que ellos puedan ser transportados , i llevados de la manera mas libre, por los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes, aun à los lugares pertenecientes à un enemigo de una ù otra, eceptuando solamente aquellos lugares ò plazas, que estan al mismo tiempo sitiadas d bloqueadas ; i para evitar toda duda en el particular, se declaran sitiadas ò bloqueadas aquellas plazas, que en la actualidad estuviesen atacadas por una fuerza de un beligerante capaz de impedir la entrada del neutral.
ART . 18°.
Los articulos de contrabando antes enumerados i clasificados, que se hallen en un buque destinado à puerto enemigo estaran sujetos à detencion i confiscacion ; dejando libre el resto del cargamento i el buque, para que los dueños puedan disponer de ellos como lo crean conveniente. Ningun buque de cualquiera de las dos Naciones, serà detenido, por tener à bordo articulos de contrabando, siempre que el Maestre, Capitan ò Sobrecargo de dicho buque quiera entregar los articulos de contrabando al apresador, à menos que la cantidad de estos articulos sea tan grande i de tanto volumen, que no puedan ser recibidos à bordo del buque apresador, sin grandes inconvenientes ; pero en este, como en todos los otros casos de justa detencion, el buque detenido sera enviado al puerto mas inmediato, comodo, i seguro, para ser juzgado i sentenciado conforme à las leyes.
 . 19 .
Y por cuanto frecuentemente sucede que los buques navegan para un ouerto ò lugar perteneciente à un enemigo, sin saber que aque! estè Jitiado, bloqueado ò envestido, se conviene en que todo buque en estas circumstancias se pueda hacer volver de dicho puerto, ò lugar ; pero no serà detenido, ni confiscada, parte alguna de su cargamento, no siendo contrabando ; à menos que despues de la intimacion de semejante bloqueo ò ataque, por el comandante de las fuerzas bloqueadoras, intentase otra vez entrar ; pero le sera permitido ir à cualquiera otro puerto ò lugar que juzgue conveniente. Ni ningun buque de una de las partes, que haya entrado en semejante puerto, ò lugar, antes que estuviese

332

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA . 1825.

or invested, by the other, be restrained from quitting such place, witl her cargo, nor, if found therein , after the reduction and surrender,
shall such vessel or her cargo be liable to confiscation , but they shall be restored to the owners thereof.

ARTICLE 20th.

Regulation of visits at seá.

In order to prevent all kind of disorder in the visiting and examination of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high seas, they have agreed, mutually, that whenever a vessel of war, public or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send its boat, with two or three men only, in order to execute the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion , violence, or ill treatment, for which the commanders of the said armed ships shall be responsible with their persons
and property, for which purpose the commanders of said private armed vessels shall, before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit. And, it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall in no case be required to go on board the examining vessel , for the purpose of exhibiting her papers, or for any other purpose whatever.

ARTICLE 21st.

Course to be

To avoid all kind of vexation and abuse in the examination of the

pursued to avoid papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens vexation in the examination of of the two contracting parties, they have agreed, and do agree, that in

papers.

case one of them should be engaged in war, the ships and vessels be-

longing to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea-letters or

passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the ship , as also

the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of said

vessel, in order that it may thereby appear that the ship really and truly

belongs to the citizens of one of the parties ; they have likewise agreed

that, such ships, being laden , besides the said sea-letters or passports,

shall also be provided with certificates, containing the several particulars

of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed, so that it may be

known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the

same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place

whence the ship sailed, in the accustomed form ; without which requi

sites, said vessel may be detained to be adjudged by the competent

tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defects shall

be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.

Further agreement.

ARTICLE 22d.
It is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed, relative to the visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which sail without convoy ; and when said vessels shall be under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of honour, that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries-and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

Prize causes.

ARTICLE 23d .
It is further agreed, that in all cases the established courts for prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal of either party shall pronounce judgment against any vessel or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reasons or motives on which the same shall have been

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

333

sitiado, bloqueado, ò envestido por la otra, sera impedido de dejar el tal lugar con su cargamento, ni si fuere hallado alli despues de la rendicion i entrega de semejante lugar, estarà el tal buque ò su cargamento sujeto à confiscacion, sino que seràn restituidos à sus dueños.
ART . 20°.
Para evitar todo genero de desorden en la visita, i examen de los buques i cargamentos de ambas partes contratantes en alta mar, han convenido mutuamente, que siempre que un buque de guerra, publico ò particular se encontrase con un neutral de la otra parte contratante, el primero permanecerà fuera de tiro de cañon, i podra mandar su bote , con dos o tres hombres solamente, para ejecutar el dicho examen de los papeles concernientes á la propiedad i carga del buque, sin ocasionar la menor estorcion, violencia ò mal tratamiento, por lo que los comandantes del dicho buque armado seràn responsables, con sus personas i bienes ; à cuyo efecto los comandantes de buques armados, por cuenta de particulares, estaràn obligados antes de entregarseles sus comisiones ò patentes, à dar fianza suficiente para responder de los perjuicios que causen. Y se ha convenido espresamente, que en ningun caso se
exigira à la parte neutral, que vaya à bordo del buque examinador con el fin de exibir sus papeles, ò para cualquiera otro objeto sea el que fuere.
ART . 21°.
Para evitar toda clase de vejamen i abuso en el examen de los papeles relativos à la propiedad de los buques pertenecientes à los ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes, han convenido i convienen, que en caso de que una de ellas estuviere en guerra, los buques, i bajeles pertenecientes à los ciudadanos de la otra, seran provistos con letras de mar, ò pasaportes, espresando el nombre, propiedad i tamaño del buque, como tambien el nombre i lugar de la residencia del Maestre , ò comandante, à fin de que se vea que el buque, real i verdaderamente pertenece à los ciudadanos de una de las partes ; i han convenido igualmente, que estando cargados los espresados buques, ademas de las letras de mar, d pasaportes, estarán tambien provistos de certificatos, que contengan los por menores del cargamento, i el lugar de donde salió el buque, para que asi pueda saberse, si hay à su bordo algunos efectos prohibidos ò de contrabando, cuyos certificatos serán hechos por los oficiales del lugar de la procedentia del buque, en la forma acostumbrada, sin cuyos requisitos el dicho buque puede ser detenido, para ser juzgado por el Tribunal competente, i puede ser declarado buena presa, à menos que satisfagan, ò suplan el defecto con testimonios enteramente equivalentes.
ART . 22°.
Se ha convenido ademas, que las estipulaciones anteriores relativas al examen i visita de buques, se aplicarán solamente à los que navegan sin conboy i que cuando los dichos buques, estuvieren bajo de conboy, serà bastante la declaracion verbal del Comandante del conboy, bajo su palabra de honor, de que los buques que estan bajo su proteccion pertenecen a la nacion , cuya bandera llevan, i cuando se dirijen à un puerto enemigo, que los dichos buques no tienen à su bordo articulos de contrabando de guerra.
ART . 23°.
Se ha convenido ademas, que en todos los casos que ocurran , solo los Tribunales establecidos para causas de presas, en el pais à que las presas sean conducidas, tomarán conocimiento de ellas. Y siempre que semejante Tribunal de cualquiera de las partes, pronunciase sentencia contra algun buque, ò efectos, ó propiedad reclamada por los ciudadanos de la otra parte, la sentencia ò decreto harà mencion de las razones

334

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825 .

founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded , be delivered to the commander or agent of said vessel, without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

ARTICLE 24th.
Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with another State, no citizen of the other contracting party shall accept a commission , or letter of marque, for the purpose of assisting or co-operating hostilely, with the said enemy, against the said party so at war, under the pain of being treated as a pirate.

Fatality

ARTICLE 25th.
If, by any fatality, which cannot be expected, and which God forbid, the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war with each other, they have agreed, and do agree, now for then, that there shall be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts and in the ports of each other, and the term of one year to those who dwell in the interior, to arrange their business, and transport their effects wherever they please, giving to them the safe conduct necessary for it, which may serve as a sufficient protection until they arrive at the designated port. The citizens of all other occupations, who may be established in the territories or dominions of the United States and of the Federation of the Centre of America, shall be respected and maintained in the full enjoyment of their personal liberty and property, unless their particular conduct shall cause them to forfeit this protection , which, in consideration of humanity, the contracting parties engage to give them.

Debts.

ARTICLE 26th. Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation to the individuals of the other, nor shares nor moneys , which they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall ever, in any event of war, or of national difference, be sequestered or confiscated.

ARTICLE 27th.

Official intercourse .

Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have agreed and do agree, to grant to the Envoys, Ministers and other Public Agents, the same favours, immunities and exemptions, which those of the most favoured nation do or shall enjoy ; it being understood that whatever favours, immunities or privileges, the United States of America or the Federation of the Centre of America, may find it proper to give to the Ministers and Public Agents of any other power, shall , by the same act, be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

Consuls and vice consuls.

ARTICLE 28th.
To make more effectual the protection which the United States and the Federation of the Centre of America shall afford in future to the
navigation and commerce of the citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit Consuls and Vice Consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, of the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the most favoured nation ; each contracting party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such Consuls may not seem convenient.

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

335

 motivos en que aquella se haya fundado, y se entregarà sin demora alguna al comandante ò agente de dicho buque, si lo solicitase, un testimonio autentico de la sentencia, ò decreto, ò de todo el proceso, pagando, por el los derechos legales.
ART . 24°.
Siempre que una de las partes contratantes estuviere empeñada en guerra, con otro Estado ningun Ciudadano de la otra parte contratante aceptarà una comision ò letra de marca para el objeto de ayudar ò cooperar hostilmente con el dicho enemigo, contra la dicha parte que estè asi en guerra, bajo la pena de ser tratado como pirata.
ART . 25°.
Si por alguna fatalidad , que no puede esperarse, i que Dios no permita, las dos partes contratantes se viesen empeñadas en guerra una con otra, han convenido y convienen de ahora para entonces, que se concedera el termino de seis meses à los comerciantes residentes en las costas i en los puertos de entrambas, i el termino de un año à los que habitan en el interior, para arreglar sus negocios, i transportar sus efectos á donde quieran , dandoles el salvo conducto necesario para ello, que les sirva de suficiente proteccion hasta que lleguen al puerto que designen. Los Ciudadanos de otras ocupaciones, que se hallen establecidos en los territorios ò dominios de la Federacion de Centro- America, ò los Estados-Unidos de America, seràn respetados, i mantenidos en el pleno goze de su libertad personal i propiedad, à menos que su conducta particular les haga perder esta proteccion, que en consideracion à la humanidad, las partes contratantes se conprometen à prestarles.
ART . 26°.
Ni las deudas contraidas por los individuos de una Nacion, con los individuos de la otra, ni las acciones ò dineros, que puedan tener en los fondos publicos, ò en los bancos publicos, ò privados, seran jamas secuestrados ò confiscados en ningun caso de guerra, ò diferencia nacional.
ART . 27°.
Deseando ambas partes contratantes, evitar toda diferencia, relativa à etiqueta en sus comunicaciones, i correspondencias diplomaticas han convenido asi mismo, i convienen en conceder à sus Enviados, Ministros, i otros Agentes Diplomaticos, los mismos favores, inmunidades, it esenciones da que gozan , ò gozaren en lo venidero los de las naciones mas favorecidas, bien entendido que cualquier favor, inmunidad ò privilegio, que la Federacion de Centro-America, ò los Estados Unidos de America, tengan por conveniente dispensar à los Enviados, Ministros, y Agentes Diplomaticos de otras Potencias, se haga por el mismo hecho estensivo à los de una i otra de las partes contratantes.
ART . 28°.
Para hacer mas efectiva la proteccion , que la Federacion de CentroAmerica, i los Estados-Unidos de America, daràn en adelante à la navegacion i comercio de los ciudadanos de una i otra, se convienen en recibir i admitir Consules, i Vice Consules en todos los puertos abiertos al comercio estrangero, quienes gozarán en ellos todos los derechos, prerrogativas è inmunidades de los Consules, i Vice Consules de la nacion mas favorecida, quedando no obstante en libertad cada parte contratante, para eceptuar aquellos puertos i lugares en que la admision i residencia de semejantes Consules, i Vice Consules no parezca conveniente.

336

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

ARTICLE 29th.

Consuls, & c.
to enjoy the
rights, & c. belongingto them by their public character.

In order that the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the two contracting
parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, which belong to them, by their public character, they shall , before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent, in due
form to the government to which they are accredited ; and having obtained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such, by all the authorities, magistrates and inhabitants, in the Consular District in which they reside.
ARTICLE 30th.

Persons attached to the ser-
4i.cCe. of consuls,

It is likewise agreed, that the Consuls, their Secretaries, Officers, and persons attached to the service of Consuls, they not being citizens of the country in which the Consul resides, shall be exempt from all public service, and also from all kind of taxes, imposts, and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce, or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and foreign, of the country in which they reside are subject, being in every thing besides subject to the laws of the respective States. The archives and papers of the Consulate shall be respected inviolably, and under no pretext whatever shall any magistrate seize, or in any way interfere with them.

ARTICLE 31st.

Power of con-
suls respecting deserters.

The said Consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country for the arrest, detention, and custody of de-
serters from the public and private vessels of their country, and for that purpose they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, and officers
competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessels or ship's roll, or other public documents, that those men were part of the said crews ; and, on this demand so proved, (saving, however, where the contrary is proved,) the delivery shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested, shall be put at the disposal of the said Consuls, and may be put in the public prisons at the request and expense of those who reclaim them, to be sent to the ships to which they belonged, or to others of the same nation. But if they be not sent back within two months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

ARTICLE 32d.

Commerce and navigation.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation , the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter as circumstances will permit them, to form a Consular Convention, which shall declare specially the powers and immunities of the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the respective parties.

Points agreed

ARTICLE 33d.
The United States of America and the Federation of the Centre of
America, desiring to make as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties by virtue of this Treaty, or General Convention of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :
1st. The present Treaty shall remain in full force and virtue for the term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, in all the parts relating to Commerce and Navigation ; and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship, it shall be per manently and perpetually binding on both powers.

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

337

ART . 29°.
Para que los Consules i Vice Consules de las dos partes contratantes, puedan gozar los derechos, prerrogativas, è inmunidades, que les corresponden por su caracter publico, antes de entrar en el ejercicio de sus funciones, presentaràn su comision ò patente en la forma debida, al Gobierno con quien estan acreditados, i habiendo obtenido el exequatur, seràn tenidos, i considerados como tales, por todas las autoridades, majistrados i habitantes del distrito Consular en que residan.

ART . 30°.

Se ha convenido igualmente, que los Consules, sus Secretarios, oficiales i personas agregadas al servicio de los consulados (no siendo estas personas ciudadanos del pais en que el Consul reside) estaràn esentos de todo servicio publico, y tambien de toda especie de pechos, impuestos, i contribuciones, eceptuando aquellas que esten obligados à pagar por razon de comercio, ò propiedad, i à las cuales estan sujetos los Ciudadanos, i habitantes naturales, i estrangeros del pais en que residen, quedando en todo lo demas, sujetos à las leyes de los respectivos Estados. Los archivos i papeles de los consulados seràn respetados inviolablemente, i bajo ningun pretesto los ocuparà magistrado alguno, ni tendra en ellos ninguna intervencion.

ART . 31°.

Los dichos Consules tendràn poder de requerir el auxilio de las autoridades locales, para la prision, detencion i custodia de los desertores de buques publicos i particulares de su pais, i para este objeto se dirigiràn à los Tribunales, Jueces, i oficiales competentes, y pediràn los dichos desertores por escrito, probando por una presentacion de los registros de los buques, rol del equipage, ù otros documentos publicos, que aquellos hombres eran parte de las dichas tripulaciones, i à esta demanda asi probada (menos no obstante cuando se probare lo contrario) no se reusarà la entrega. Semejantes desertores, luego que sean arrestados, se pondràn à disposicion de los dichos Consules, i pueden ser depositados en las prisiones publicas, à solicitud i espensas de los que los reclamen, para ser enviados à los buques à que corresponden ò à otros de la misma nacion. Pero si no fueren mandados dentro de dos meses contados desde el dia de su arresto, seràn puestos
en libertad, y no volverán a ser presos por la misma causa.

ART . 32°.

Para proteger mas efectivamente su comercio y navegacion, las dos partes contratantes se convienen en formar luego que las circumstancias lo permitan, una Convencion Consular , que declare mas especialmente los poderes é inmunidades de los Consules i Vice Consules de las partes respectivas.

ART . 33°.

La Federacion de Centro-America , i los Estados Unidos de America, deseando hacer tan duraderas i firmes, como las circumstancias lo per-

mitan las relaciones, que han de establecerse entre las dos Potencias, en virtud del presente Tratádo ó Convencion General de Paz , Amistad , Comercio, i Navegacion, han declarado solennemente i convienen en los puntos siguientes :

1. El presente tratado permanecerà en su fuerza i vigor por el termino de doce años contados desde el dia del cange de las ratificaciones, en todos los puntos concernientes à comercio i navegacion, i en todos los demas puntos que se refieren à paz i amistad, serà permanente, i

perpetuamente obligatorio para ambas potencias.

VOL. VIII. 43

2D

336

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA. 1825.

2dly. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this Treaty, such citizen shall be held personally responsible for the same, and the harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby ; each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

Treaty to be approved, & c. by the President, & c.

3dly. If (which, indeed, cannot be expected,) unfortunately, any of the articles contained in the present Treaty shall be violated or infringed in any other way whatever, it is expressly stipulated, that neither of the contracting parties will order or authorize any acts of reprisal, nor declare war against the other, on complaints of injuries or damages, until the said party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proof, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.
4thly. Nothing in this Treaty contained shall, however, be construed or operate contrary to former and existing Public Treaties with other Sovereigns or States.
The present Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation , shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Government of the Federation of the Centre of America, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the City of Guatemala, within eight months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if J'ssible.

In faith whereof, we, the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of the Federation of the Centre of America, have signed and sealed these presents.
Done in the City of Washington, on the fifth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, in the fiftieth year of the Independence of the United States of America, and the fifth of that of the Federation of the Centre of America, in duplicate.

H. CLAY ,

(L. S.)

ANTONIO JOSE CANAS, (L. s.)

CONVENTION WITH CENTRAL AMERICA . 1825.

339

2º. Si alguno, ó algunos de los Ciudadanos de una ú otra parte infringiesen alguno de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, dichos ciudadanos seran personalmente responsables, sin que por esto se interrumpa la harmonia i buena correspondencia entre las dos Naciones, comprometiendose cada una á no proteger de modo alguno al ofensor , ó sancionar semejante violacion .
3. Si (lo que á la verdad no puede esperarse) desgraciadamente, alguno de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, fuesen en alguna otra manera violados, ó infringidos, se estipula espresamente que ninguna de las dos partes contratantes, ordenará, ó autorízará ningunos actos de represalia, ni declarará la guerra contra la otra por quejas de injurias, ó daños, hasta que la parte que se crea ofendida, haya antes presentado á la otra una esposicion de aquellas injurias, ó daños, verificada con pruebas i testimonios competentes, exigiendo justicia i satisfaccion, i esto haya sido negado, ó diferido sin razon.
4°. Nada de cuanto se contiene en el presente tratado, se construirá sin embargo, ni obrará, en contra de otros tratados publicos anteriores, i existentes con otros soberanos ó Estados.
El presente tratado de paz, amistad, comercio, y navegacion, será ratificado por el Gobierno de la Federacion de Centro-America, por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, con consejo, i consentimiento del Senado de los mismos ; i las ratificaciones seran cangeadas en la Ciudad de Guatemala dentro de ochos meses contados desde este dia, ó antes si fuese posible.

En fe de lo cual nosotros los Plenipotenciarios de la Federacion de Centro-America, y de los Estados-Unidos de America hemos firmado y sellado las presentes.
Dadas en la Ciudad de Washington , el dia cinco de Deciembre del año del Señor mil ocho cientos veinticinco, quinto de la independ encia de la Federacion de Centro-America i quinquagesimo de la de los Estados Unidos de America, per duplicado.

ANTONIO JOSE CANAS, (L. S.)

H. CLAY ,

(L. 8.)

GENERAL CONVENTION OF FRIENDSHIP, COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION,

April 26, 1826.
Ratified Aug. 10, 1826. Proclamation ofthe President of the United
States, Oct. 14, 1826.
Peace, & c.

Between the United States of America and his Majesty the
King of Denmark. (a)
THE United States of America and his Majesty the King of Denmark, being desirous to make firm and permanent the peace and friendship which happily prevail between the two nations, and to extend the commercial relations which subsist between their respective territories and People, have agreed to fix, in a manner clear and positive, the rules which shall in future be observed between the one and the other party, by means of a General Convention of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation . With that object, the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on Henry Clay, their Secretary of State, and his Majesty the King of Denmark has conferred like powers on Peter Pedersen , his Privy Counsellor of Legation, and Minister resident near the said States, Knight of the Dannebrog, who, after having exchanged their said full powers , found to be in due and proper form , have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE 1.

Commerce and navigation.

The contracting parties, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all, engage, mutually, not to grant any particular favour to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession were freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession were conditional.

ARTICLE 2.

Navigation, equality, and reciprocity.

The contracting parties being likewise desirous of placing the Commerce and Navigation of their respective countries on the liberal basis of perfect equality and reciprocity, mutually agree that the citizens and subjects of each may frequent all the coasts and countries of the other, (with the exception hereafter provided for in the sixth article, ) and reside and trade there in all kinds of produce, manufactures, and merchandize ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges, and exemptions, in navigation and commerce, which native citizens or subjects do, or shall enjoy, submitting themselves to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established, to which native citizens or subjects are subjected. But it is understood that this article does not include the coasting trade

of either country, the regulation of which is reserved by the parties, respectively, according to their own separate laws.

ARTICLE 3.

Produce and manufactures.

They, likewise, agree that whatever kind of produce, manufacture, or merchandize, of any foreign country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the United States, in vessels belonging wholly to the citi-

(a) The treaties and conventions between the United States and Denmark have been : General Convention of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation , between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Denmark, April 26 , 1826. Convention between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Denmark, March 28 1830. Post , 402.
(340)

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK . 1826.

341

zens thereof, may be also imported in vessels wholly belonging to the subjects of Denmark ; and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessel or her cargo shall be levied and collected, whether the importation be made in vessels of the one country or of the other. And, in like manner, that whatever kind of produce, manufacture, or merchandize, of any foreign country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the dominions of the King of Denmark, in the vessels thereof, (with the exception hereafter mentioned in the sixth article, ) may be also imported in vessels of the United States ; and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessel or her cargo shall be levied and collected, whether the importation be made in vessels of the one country or of the other. And they further agree, that whatever
may be lawfully exported or re-exported, from the one country in its own vessels, to any foreign country, may, in like manner, be exported or re-exported in the vessels of the other country. And the same bounties, duties, and drawbacks, shall be allowed and collected, whether such exportation or re-exportation be made in vessels of the United States or of Denmark. Nor shall higher or other charges of any kind be imposed, in the ports of one party, on vessels of the other, than are, or shall be, payable in the same ports by native vessels.

ARTICLE 4.
No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of any article, the produce or manufacture of the dominions of his Majesty the King of Denmark ; and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the said dominions of any article, the produce or manufacture of the United States, than are, or shall be, payable on the like articles, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall any higher or other duties or charges be imposed in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles to the United States, or to the dominions of his Majesty the King of Denmark, respectively, than such as are, or may be, payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country. Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles, the produce or manufacture of the United States, or of the dominions of his Majesty the King of Denmark, to, or from, the territories of the United States, or to or from the said dominions, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

Duties.

ARTICLE 5.
Neither the vessels of the United States nor their cargoes shall, when they pass the Sound or the Belts, pay higher or other duties than those which are or may be paid by the most favoured nation.

Same.

ARTICLE 6.
The present Convention shall not apply to the Northern possessions of his Majesty the King of Denmark ; that is to say, Iceland , the Ferroé Islands, and Greenland, nor to places situated beyond the Cape of Good Hope, the right to regulate the direct intercourse with which possessions and places is reserved by the parties respectively. And it is further agreed that this Convention is not to extend to the direct trade between Denmark and the West India Colonies of his Danish
Majesty, but in the intercourse with those Colonies, it is agreed that whatever can be lawfully imported into or exported from the said Colonies in vessels of one party from or to the ports of the United States, or from or to the ports of any other foreign country, may, in like manner, and with the same duties and charges, applicable to vessel and cargo, be imported into or exported from the said Colonies in vessels of the other party.
2D2

Possessions

342

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK. 1826.

ARTICLE 7.

Taxes.

The United States and his Danish Majesty mutually agree, that no higher or other duties, charges, or taxes of any kind, shall be levied in the territories or dominions of either party, upon any personal property,
money, or effects, of their respective citizens or subjects, on the removal of the same from their territories or dominions reciprocally, either upon the inheritance of such property, money, or effects, or otherwise, than are or shall be payable in each State, upon the same, when removed by a citizen or subject of such State respectively.

ARTICLE 8.

Consuls and vice-consuls.

To make more effectual the protection which the United States and his Danish Majesty shall afford in future, to the navigation and commerce of their respective citizens and subjects, they agree mutually to receive and admit Consuls and Vice Consuls in all the ports open to
foreign commerce, who shall enjoy in them all the rights, privileges, and immunities, of the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the most favoured nation, each contracting party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such
Consuls may not seem convenient.

ARTICLE 9.

Rights, privileges, & c. of the same.

In order that the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the contracting parties may enjoy the rights, privileges, and immunities, which belong to them , by their public character, they shall, before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent in due form to the Government to which they are accredited ; and having obtained their exequater, which shall be granted gratis, they shall be held and considered as such by all the authorities, magistrates, and inhabitants, in the Consular district in which they reside.
ARTICLE 10.

Concerning consuls.

It is likewise agreed, that the Consuls and persons attached to their necessary service, they not being natives of the country in which the Consul resides, shall be exempt from all public service, and also from all kind of taxes, imposts, and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay, on account of commerce, or their property, to which inhabitants, native and foreign , of the country in which such Consuls reside, are subject, being in every thing besides subject to the laws of the respective States. The archives and papers of the Consulate shall be respected inviolably, and, under no pretext whatever, shall any magistrate seize or in any way interfere with them.

ARTICLE 11.

Convention to be in force for

The present Convention shall be in force for ten years from the date

ten years.

hereof, and further until the end of one year after either of the con

tracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention to

terminate the same ; each of the contracting parties reserving to itself

the right of giving such notice to the other at the end of the said term

of ten years ; and it is hereby agreed , between them, that , on the ex-

piration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either,

from the other party, this convention , and all the provisions thereof,

shall altogether cease and determine.

Convention to
be approved of by the Presi dent , & c.

ARTICLE 12.
This Convention shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by his Majesty the King of Denmark, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the city of Copenhagen , within eight months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner, if possible.

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK . 1826.

343

In faith whereof, we, the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, and of his Danish Majesty, have signed and sealed these presents.
Done in triplicate, at the City of Washington, on the twenty-sixth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, in the fiftieth year of the Independence of the United States of America. H. CLAY. PR. PEDERSEN

ADDENDUM.

Mr. Clay to Mr. Pedersen.

Addendum .

DEPARTMENT of State,

Washington, April 25, 1826. }

The undersigned, Secretary of State of the United States, by direc- April 25 , 1826. tion of the President thereof, has the honour to state to Mr. Pedersen, Minister resident of his Majesty the King of Denmark, that it would have been satisfactory to the Government of the United States, if Mr. Pedersen had been charged with instructions in the negotiation which has just terminated , to treat of the indemnities to citizens of the United States, in consequence of the seizure, detention , and condemnation of
their property, in the ports of his Danish Majesty. But as he has no instructions to that effect, the undersigned is directed, at and before proceeding to the signature of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation, on which they have agreed, explicitly to declare, that the omission to provide for those indemnities, is not hereafter to be interpreted as a waiver or abandonment of them by the Government of the United States , which, on the contrary, is firmly resolved to persevere in the pursuit of them, until they shall be finally arranged, upon principles of equity and justice. And, to guard against any misconception of the fact of the silence of the Treaty, in the above particular, or of the views of the American Government, the undersigned requests that Mr. Pedersen will transmit this official declaration to the Government of Denmark. And he avails himself of this occasion to tender to Mr. Pedersen assu-

rances of his distinguished consideration . The Chevalier PEDERSEN,

H. CLAY .

Minister Resident from Denmark.

The Chevalier Peter Pedersen to Mr. Clay.

WASHINGTON, 25th April, 1826.

The undersigned , Minister resident of his Majesty the King of Denmark, has the honour, herewith, to acknowledge having received Mr. Clay's official note of this day , declaratory of the advanced claims against Denmark, not being waived on the part of the United States, by the Convention agreed upon , and about to be signed, which note he, as requested, will transmit to his Government. And he avails himself of this occasion to renew to Mr. Clay assurances of his distinguished consideration.
P. PEDERSEN To the Hon. HENRY CLAY,
Secretary of State of the United States.

April 25, 1826.

CONVENTION

Nov. 13 , 1826 .

Between the United States of America and Great

Ratifications exchanged , Feb. 6 , 1827. Proclamation of the President of the U. S.,
March 19, 1827.

Britain.
DIFFICULTIES having arisen in the execution of the Convention concluded at St. Petersburgh, on the twelfth day of July, 1822, under the mediation of his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, between the United States of America and Great Britain, for the purpose of carrying

into effect the decision of his Imperial Majesty upon the differences which had arisen between the said United States and Great Britain , on

the true construction and meaning of the First Article of the Treaty of Peace and Amity, concluded at Ghent on the twenty-fourth day of De-

cember, 1814, the said United States and his Britannick Majesty, being

equally desirous to obviate such difficulties, have respectively named

Plenipotentiaries to treat and agree respecting the same ; that is to say :

The President of the United States of America has appointed ALBERT

GALLATIN, their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to his Britannick Majesty:

And his Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , the Right Honourable WILLIAM HUSKISSON, a member of

his said Majesty's most honourable Privy Council , a member of Parliament, President of the Committee of Privy Council for Affairs of Trade

and Foreign Plantations, and Treasurer of his said Majesty's Navy, and

HENRY UNWIN ADDINGTON , Esquire , late his Majesty's Chargé d'Affaires to the United States of America :

Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found to be in due and proper form, have agreed upon, and

concluded the following Articles :

ARTICLE I.

$1,204,960 to
bBreiptaaiidn btoy tGhreeat U.S., to carry into effect the decision of the Emperor of Russia.

His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland agrees to pay, and the United States of America agree to receive, for the use of the persons entitled to indemnification and compensation by virtue of the said decision and Convention , the sum of twelve hundred and four thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars, current money of the United States, in lieu of, and in full and complete satisfaction for, all sums claimed or claimable from Great Britain, by any person or persons whatsoever, under the said decision and Convention.

ARTICLE II.

The conven-
tion being ful-
filled , annulled, except part of the third article.

The object of the said Convention being thus fulfilled , that Convention is hereby declared to be cancelled and annulled , save and except the second article of the same, which has already been carried into execution by the Commissioners appointed under the said Convention ; and save and except so much of the Third Article of the same, as relates to the definitive list of claims, and has already likewise been carried into execution by the said Commissioners.

When and where payable.

ARTICLE III. The said sum of twelve hundred and four thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars shall be paid at Washington to such person or persons as
(344)

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1826.

345

shall be duly authorized, on the part ofthe United States, to receive the same, in two equal payments as follows :
The payment of the first half to be made twenty days after official notification shall have been made , by the Government of the United States , to his Britannick Majesty's Minister in the said United States, of the ratification of the present Convention by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof.
And the payment of the second half to be made on the first day of August, 1827.
ARTICLE IV.
The above sums being taken as a full and final liquidation of all The sums to
claims whatsoever arising under the said decision and Convention, both bcleaiinmsfuulnldoefral the final adjustment of those claims, and the distribution of the sums so the convention. paid by Great Britain to the United States, shall be made in such manner as the United States alone shall determine ; and the Govern-
ment of Great Britain shall have no further concern or liability therein .

ARTICLE V.

It is agreed, that, from the date of the exchange of the ratifications of the present Convention, the Joint Commission appointed under the said Convention of St. Petersburgh, of the twelfth of July, 1822, shall be dissolved ; and, upon the dissolution thereof, all the documents and papers in possession of the said Commission , relating to claims under that Convention, shall be delivered over to such person or persons as shall be duly authorized, on the part of the United States, to receive the same. And the British Commissioner shall make over to such per-

Papers of the commission.

son or persons, so authorized, all the documents and papers, (or authenticated copies of the same, where the originals cannot conveniently be made over, ) relating to claims under the said Convention, which he may have received from his Government for the use of the said Commission,
conformably to the stipulations contained in the Third Article of the said Convention.
ARTICLE VI.

The present Convention shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall Ratification of be exchanged in London , in six months from this date, or sooner, if this convention possible.

In witness whereof, the Plenipotentiaries aforesaid, by virtue of
their respective full powers, have signed the same, and have affixed thereunto the seals of their arms.

Done at London, this thirteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six.

ALBERT GALLATIN,

(L. S.)

WILLIAM HUSKISSON ,

L. S.

HENRY UNWIN ADDINGTON, (L. s.)

VOL. VIII.

44

July 4, 1827. TREATY WITH SWEDEN AND NORWAY . (a)

Ratifications
exchanged , Jan. 18, 1828. Proclamation
of the President of the U.S., Jan. 19, 1828.
Plenipotentia rios.

In the name of the Most Holy and Indivisible Trinity. THE United States of America and His Majesty, the King of Sweden and Norway, equally animated with the desire of extending and consolidating the commercial relations subsisting between their respective Territories, and convinced that this object cannot better be accomplished than by placing them on the basis of a perfect equality and reciprocity, have, in consequence, agreed to enter into negotiation for a New Treaty of Commerce and Navigation ; and, to this effect, have appointed Plenipotentiaries, to wit : The President of the United States of Ame-

rica, John James Appleton, Chargé d'Affaires of the said States at the

Court of His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway ; and His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, the Sieur Gustave Count de Wetterstedt, his Minister of State and of Foreign Affairs, Knight Com-

mander of his orders, Knight of the Orders of St. Andrew, St. Alexander Newsky, and St. Ann , of the first class, of Russia ; Knight of the

Order of the Red Eagle, of the first class, of Prussia ; Grand Cross of

the Order of Leopold, of Austria ; one of the Eighteen of the Swedish

Academy ; who, after having exchanged their full powers, found in good

and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

Navigation and commerce.

ARTICLE I.
The citizens and subjects of each of the two high contracting parties may, with all security for their persons, vessels, and cargoes, freely enter the ports, places, and rivers, of the territories of the other, wherever foreign commerce is permitted. They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories ; to rent and occupy houses and warehouses for their commerce ; and they shall enjoy, generally, the most entire security and protection in their mercantile transactions, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances of the respective countries.

ARTICLE II.

Swedish and

Swedish and Norwegian vessels, and those of the Island of St. Bar-

Norwegian vessels, & c. to be treated as na-
tional vessels, & c.

tholomew, arriving either laden or in ballast, into the ports of the United States of America, from whatever place they may come, shall be treated on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with re-

spect to the duties of tonnage, light houses, pilotage, and port charges,

as well as to the perquisites of public officers, and all other duties or

charges of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to

the profit, of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever.

Reciprocal as to American
vessels.

And, reciprocally the vessels of the United States of America, arriving either laden , or in ballast, in the ports fthe kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, from whatever place they nay come, shall be

treated on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure ,

upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place,

with respect to the duties of tonnage, light houses, pilotage, and port

charges, as well as to the perquisites of public officers, and all other

(a) See notes of the treaties between the United States and Sweden, ante, page 0. (346)

TRAITÉ À SUÈDE ET NORVÈGE .
Au nom de la très Sainte et Indivisible Trinité.
LES Etats Unis d'Amérique, et sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, également animés du désir d'étendre et de consolider les relations commerciales qui subsistent entre leurs territoires respectifs, et convaincus que ce but ne sauroit être mieux rempli, qu'en les plaçant sur la base d'une parfaite égalité et réciprocité sont convenus, en conséquence, d'entrer en négotiation pour un nouveau Traité de Commerce et de Navigation, et ont nommé, à cet effet, des Plénipotentiaires, savoir le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, John James Appleton, Chargé d'Affaires desdits Etats à la cour de Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège ; et Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, le Sieur Gustave, Comte de Wetterstedt, Son Ministre d'Etat et des Affaires Etrangères, Chevalier Commandeur de ses Ordres, Chevalier des Ordres de Russie, de St. André de St. Alexandre Newsky, et de Ste. Anne de la première classe, Chevalier de l'Ordre de l'Aigle Rouge de Prusse de la première classe, Grand Croix de l'Ordre de Léopold d'Autriche, un des Dix-huit de l'Académie Suédoise, lesquels, après avoir échangé leurs Pleins Pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté les articles suivans.
ARTICLE I.
Les citoyens et sujets de chacune des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes, pourront avec toute surêté, pour leurs personnes, vaisseaux et cargaisons, aborder librement dans les ports, places, et rivières, des territoires de l'autre, partout où le commerce étranger est permis. Ils pourront s'y arrêter et résider dans quelque partie que ce soit desdits territoires, y louer et occuper des maisons et des magasins pour leur commerce et jouiront, généralement de la plus entière sécurité et protection pour les affaires de leur négoce, à charge de se soumettre aux lois et ordonnances des pays respectifs.
ARTICLE II.
Les bâtimens Suédois et Norvégiens et ceux de l'île de St. Barthélemy qui arriveront sur leur lest ou chargés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amerique, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, seront traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les batimens nationaux venant du même lieu, par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux, de pilotage, et de port, ainsi qu'aux vacations des officiers publics, et à tout autre droit où charge , de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques.
Et réciproquement, les batimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique qui arriveront sur leur lest ou chargés dans les ports des Royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, seront, traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les bâtimens nationaux venant du même lieu, par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux , de pilotage et de port, ainsi qu'aux vacations des officiers publics et à tout autre droit ou charge de quelque espèce ou dé-
(347)

348

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any pri vate establishments whatsoever.

*mports.

ARTICLE III.
All that may be lawfully imported into the United States of America, in vessels of the said States, may also be thereinto imported in Swedish or Norwegian vessels , and in those of the Island of St. Bartholomew, from whatever place they may come, without paying other or higher duties, or charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit, of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if imported in national vessels.
And, reciprocally, all that may be lawfully imported into the Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, in Swedish and Norwegian vessels , or in those of the Island of St Bartholomew, may also be thereinto imported in vessels of the United States of America, from whatever place they may come, without paying other or higher duties, or charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit, of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if imported in national vessels."

Exports.

ARTICLE IV.
All that may be lawfully exported from the United States of America, in vessels of the said States, may also be exported therefrom in Swedish and Norwegian vessels, or in those of the Island of St. Bartholomew, without paying other or higher duties, or charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit, of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if exported in national vessels.
And, reciprocally, all that may be lawfully exported from the kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, in Swedish and Norwegian vessels, or in those ofthe Island of St. Bartholomew, may also be exported therefrom in vessels of the United States of America, without paying other or higher duties, or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit, of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if exported in national vessels.

ARTICLE V.

Above stipula- The stipulations contained in the three preceding articles, are, to their

tions applicable to Ainerican
vessels proceed
ing to St. Bartholomew .

full extent, applicable to the vessels of the United States of America, proceeding, either laden, or not laden, to the colony of St. Bartholomew, in the West Indies, whether from the ports of the kingdoms of Sweden and Norway, or from any other place whatsoever ; or proceeding from

the said colony either laden or not laden , whether bound for Sweden or

Norway, or for any other place whatsoever.

ARTICLE VI.

Not applicable It is expressly understood that the foregoing second, third, and fourth

to coastwise articles, are not applicable to the coastwise navigation from one port of

navigation.

the United States of America, to another port of the said States ; nor

to the navigation from one port of the kingdoms of Sweden or of Nor-

way to another, nor to that between the two latter countries ; which

navigation each of the two high contracting parties reserves to itself.

ARTICLE VII .
Each of the two high contracting parties engages not to grant, in its purchases, or in those which might be made by companies or agents ,

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

3-19

nomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit, du Gouvernement des administrations locales, ou d'éstablissemens particuliers quelconques.

ARTICLE III.
Tout ce qui pourra légalement être importé dans les Etats Unis d'Amérique, par bâtimens desdits Etats, pourra également y être importé par bâtimens Suédois et Norvégiens, ou de l'île de St. Barthélemy, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'establissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'importation avoit lieu en bâtimens nationaux.
Et réciproquement, tout ce qui pourra légalement être importé dans les Royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, par bâtimens Suédois ou Norvégiens, ou de l'ile de St. Barthélemy, pourra également y être importé par bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'éstablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'importation avoit lieu en bâtimens nationaux.
ARTICLE IV.
Tout ce qui pourra légalement être exporté des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par bâtimens desdits Etats, pourra également en être exporté par bâtimens Suédois et Norvégiens, ou de l'île de St. Barthélemy, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit perçus au nom, ou au profit, du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'exportation avoit eu lieu en bâtimens nationaux .
Et réciproquement, tout ce qui pourra légalement être exporté des Royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, par bâtimens Suédois et Norvégiens, ou de l'île de St. Barthélemy, pourra également en être exporté par bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou denomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit, du Gouvernement, des administration locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'exportation avait lieu en bâtimens nationaux.
ARTICLE V.
Les stipulations des trois articles précédens sont dans toute leur plénitude, applicables aux bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique qui se rendront chargés ou non chargés, dans la colonie de St. Barthélemy, aux Indes Occidentales, soit des ports des Royaumes de Suède et de Norvège soit de tout autre lieu quelconque, ou qui sortiront de la dite colonie, chargés ou non chargés, pour se rendre, soit en Suède ou en Norvège, soit en tout autre lieu quelconque.
ARTICLE VI.
Il est expressément entendu que les articles précédens, deux, trois, et quatre, ne sont point applicables à la navigation de côte ou de cabotage d'un port des Etats Unis d'Amérique, à un autre port desdits Etats, ni à la navigation d'un port des royaumes de Suède ou de Norvège à un autre, ou à celle entre ces deux derniers pays, navigation que chacune des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes se réserve.
ARTICLE VII.
Chacune des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes s'engage à ne donner dans ses achats, ou dans ceux qui seroient faits par des compagnies ou
F

350

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

No preference acting in its name, or under its authority, any preference to importa

troegbaerdgrtaonitmpeodri-n tions made in its own vessels, or in those of a third Power, over those

tations.

made in the vessels of the other contracting party.

ARTICLE VIII.

No tonnage
duties to be imposed, except, & c.

The two high contracting parties engage not to impose upon the navigation between their respective territories , in the vessels of either, any tonnage or other duties of any kind or denomination , which shall be higher, or other than those which shall be imposed on every other navigation, except that which they have reserved to themselves, respectively, by the sixth article of the present treaty.

ARTICLE IX .

No restriction There shall not be established , in the United States of America, upon

to be imposed, the products of the soil or industry of the kingdoms of Sweden and

bupyoenitihmeprorpatrat-y, Norway, or of the island of St. Bartholomews, any prohibition or re-

tions of the pro- striction of importation or exportation, nor any duties of any kind or

ducts of the soil.

denomination whatsoever, unless such prohibitions, restrictions, and du-

ties, shall, likewise, be established upon articles of like nature, the

growth of any other country.

And, reciprocally, there shall not be established in the Kingdoms of

Sweden and Norway, nor in the Island of St. Bartholomews, on the products of the soil or industry of the United States of America, any pro-

hibition or restriction of importation or exportation , nor any duties of

any kind or denomination whatsoever , unless such prohibitions, restric-

tions, and duties, be likewise established upon articles of like nature,

the growth of the Island of St. Bartholomew, or of any other place, in

case such importation be made into, or from, the Kingdoms of Sweden

and Norway; or of the Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway or of any

other place, in case such importation or exportation be made into, or from, the Island of St. Bartholomew.

ARTICLE X.

All privileges All privileges of transit, and all bounties and drawbacks which may of transit, draw be allowed within the territories of one of the high contracting parties
bmuatcuka, l&. c. to be upon the importation or exportation of any article whatsoever, shall likewise, be allowed on the articles of like nature, the products of the soil or industry of the other contracting party, and on the importations and exportations made in its vessels.

ARTICLE XI.

Vessels enter
ing a port, and unnoltowaids,hminagyto depart without paying any dut&iecs., other than

The citizens or subjects of one of the high contracting parties, arriving with their vessels on the coasts belonging to the other, but not wishing to enter the port, or after having entered therein , not wishing to unload any part of their cargo, shall be at liberty to depart and continue their voyage, without paying any other duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, for the vessel and cargo, than those of pilotage, wharfage and for the support of light-houses, when such duties shall be levied or national vessels in similar cases. It is understood , however, that they shall always conform to such regulations and ordinances concerning navigation , and the places and ports which they may enter, as are, or shall be, in force with regard to national vessels ; and that the custom house officers shall be permitted to visit them, to remain on board, and to take all such precautions as may be necessary to prevent all unlawfv. commerce, as long as the vessels shall remain within the limits of their

jurisdiction.

ARTICLE XII.

It is further agreed , that the vessels of one of the high contracting parties, having entered into the ports of the other, will be permitted to

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

351

des agens agissant en son nom ou sous son autorité aucune préférence aux importations faites par ses bâtimens ou par ceux d'une nation tierce, sur celles faites dans les bâtimens de l'autre Partie Contractante.
ARTICLE VIII.
Les deux Hautes Parties Contractantes s'engagent à ne pas établir sur la navigation entre leurs territoires respectifs, par les bâtimens de l'une ou de l'autre, des droits de tonnage ou autres, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, plus hauts ou autres que ceux qui seront établis sur toute autre navigation, excepté celle qu'elles se sont respectivement réservée par le sixième article du présent traité.
ARTICLE IX.
Il ne pourra pas être établi dans les Etats Unis d'Amérique, sur les productions du sol ou de l'industrie des royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, et de l'île de St. Barthélemy, aucune prohibition ou restriction d'importation ou d'exportation , ni aucuns droits, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, qu'autant que ces prohibitions, ces restrictions et ces droits seroient également établis sur les objets de même nature provenant de toute autre contrée.
Et réciproquement, il ne pourra pas être établi dans les royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, ni dans l'île de St. Barthélemy, sur les productions du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis d'Amérique, aucune prohibition ou restriction d'importation ou d'exportation, ni aucuns droits, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, qu'autant que ces prohibitions, ces restrictions et ces droits, seroient également établis sur les objets de même nature provenant, dans le cas où l'importation ou l'exportation auroit lieu dans ou hors des royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, de l'île de St. Barthélemy ou de tout autre endroit ; et dans le cas où l'importation ou l'exportation aurait lieu dans ou hors l'île de St. Barthélemy, des royaumes de Suède et de Norvège ou de tout autre endroit.
ARTICLE X.
Toute faculté d'entrepôt et toutes primes et remboursemens de droits, qui seroient accordés dans les territoires d'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, à l'importation ou à l'exportation de quelque objet que ce soit, seront également accordés aux objets de même nature produits du sol ou de l'industrie de l'autre Partie Contractante, et aux importations et exportations faites dans ses bâtimens.
ARTICLE XI.
Les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, arrivant avec leurs bâtimens à l'une des côtes appartenant à l'autre, mais ne voulant pas entrer dans le port, ou, après y être entrés, ne voulant décharger aucune partie de leur cargaison, auront la liberté de partir et de poursuivre leur voyage, sans payer d'autres droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, pour le bâtiment ou la cargaison, que les droits de pilotage, de quayage, et d'entretien de fanaux, quand ces droits sont perçus sur les nationaux dans les mêmes cas. Bien entendu, cependant qu'ils
sa conformeront toujours aux réglemens et ordonnances concernant la navigation et les places ou ports dans lesquels ils pourront aborder, qui sont, ou seront en vigueur pour les nationaux, et qu'il sera permis aux officiers des douanes de les visiter, de rester à bord, et de prendre telles
précautions, qui pourroient être nécessaires pour prévenir tout com. merce illicite, pendant que les bâtimens resteront dans l'enceinte dr leur jurisdiction.
ARTICLE XII.
Il est aussi convenu que les bâtimens de l'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, étant entrés dans les ports de l'autre, pourront se borner

352

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

Vessels un.
loading a part of their cargoes, to payno duties on the remain. der.

confine themselves to unloading such part only of their cargoes, as the Captain or owner may wish, and that they may freely depart with the remainder, without paying any duties, imposts, or charges, whatsoever, except for that part which shall have been landed , and which shall be
marked upon, and erased from , the manifest exhibiting the enumeration of the articles with which the vessel was laden ; which manifest shall be

presented entire at the Custom House of the place where the vessel shall have entered. Nothing shall be paid on that part of the cargo

which the vessel shall carry away, and with which it may continue its voyage, to one, or several other ports of the same country, there to dis-

pose of the remainder of its cargo, if composed of articles whose impor-

tation is permitted, on paying the duties chargeable upon it ; or it may

proceed to any other country. It is understood, however, that all

duties, imposts, or charges whatsoever, which are, or may become

chargeable upon the vessels themselves, must be paid at the first port

where they shall break bulk , or unlade part of their cargoes ; but that

no duties, imposts, or charges, of the same description, shall be de-

manded anew in the ports of the same country, which such vessels

might, afterwards, wish to enter, unless national vessels be, in similar cases, subject to some ulterior duties.

ARTICLE XIII.

Consuls, & c. to be admitted into the ports of the contract-
ing parties.

Each of the high contracting parties grants to the other, the privilege of appointing, in its commercial ports and places, Consuls, Vice Consuls, and Commercial agents, who shall enjoy the full protection , and receive every assistance necessary for the due exercise of their func.

tions ; but it is expressly declared, that, in case of illegal or improper

conduct, with respect to the laws or Government of the country in which

said Consuls, Vice consuls, or Commercial Agents shall reside, they

may be prosecuted and punished conformably to the laws, and deprived

of the exercise of their functions by the offended Government, which

shall acquaint the other with its motives for having thus acted ; it being understood however, that the archives and documents relative to the

affairs of the consulate shall be exempt from all search, and shall be

carefully preserved under the seals of the Consuls, Vice Consuls, or

Commercial Agents, and of the authority of the place where they may reside.

Consuls, & c. to act as arbitrators in certain cases.
1846, ch. 105.

The consuls, vice consuls, or commercial agents, or the persons duly authorized to supply their places , shall have the right, as such , to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local

authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or of the captain, should

disturb the order or tranquillity of the country ; or the said consuls,

vice consuls, or commercial agents should require their assistance to

cause their decisions to be carried into effect or supported. It is, however, understood, that this species of judgment, or arbitration shall not

deprive the contending parties of the right they have to resort, on their

return, to the judicial authority of their country.

Consuls, & c. authorized to
require the assistance of the local authori. ties.

ARTICLE XIV.
The said consuls , vice consuls , or commercial agents, are authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities for the arrest, detention , and imprisonment, of the deserters from the ships of war and merchant vessels of their country ; and, for this purpose, they shall apply to the competent tribunals, judges, and officers, and shall, in writing, demand said deserters, proving, by the exhibition of the registers of the vessels, the rolls of the crews, or by other official documents, that such indi-

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

358

à ne décharger qu'une partie de leur cargaison, selon que le capitaine ou propriétaire le desirera, et qu'ils pourront s'en aller librement avec le reste, sans payer de droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, que pour la partie qui aura été mise à terre, et qui sera marquée et biffée sur le manifeste, qui contiendra l'énumération des effets dont le bâtiment était chargé, lequel manifeste devra étre présenté en entier à la douane du lieu où le bâtiment aura bordé. Il ne sera rien payé pour la partie de
la cargaison que le bâtiment remportera, et avec la quelle il pourra continuer sa route pour un ou plusieurs autres ports du même pays, et y disposer du reste de sa cargaison, si elle est composée d'objets dont l'importation est permise, en payant les droits qui y sont applicables, ou bien il pourra s'en aller dans tout autre pays. Il est cependant entendu que les droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, qui sont ou seront payables pour les bâtimens mêmes, doivent être acquittés au premier port ou ils romproient le chargement, ou en déchargeroient une partie, mais qu'aucuns droits, impôts ou charges pareils ne seront demandés de nouveau dans les ports du même pays où lesdits bâtimens pourroient vouloir entrer après, à moins que les nationaux ne soient sujets à quelques droits ultérieurs dans le même cas.

ARTICLE XIII.
Chacune des Hautes Parties Contractantes accorde à l'autre la faculté d'entretenir dans ses ports et places de commerce, des Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens de Commerce, qui jouiront de toute la protection, et recevront toute l'assistance nécessaire pour remplir duement leurs fonctions ; mais il est expressément déclaré que dans le cas d'une conduite illégale ou impropre envers les lois ou le gouvernement du pays dans lequels lesdits Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens Commerciaux, résideroient ils pourront être poursuivis et punis conformément aux lois et privés de l'exercice de leurs fonctions par le Gouvernement offensé qui fera connoître à l'autre ses motifs pour avoir agi ainsi, bien entendu cependant que les archives et documens relatifs aux affaires du Consulat seront à l'abri de toute recherche, et devront être soigneusement conservés sous le scellé des Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens Commerciaux, et de l'autorité de l'endroit où ils résideroient.

Les Consuls, Vice Consuls, et Agens Commerciaux, ou ceux qui seroient duement autorisés à les suppléer auront le droit, comme tels, de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les differéns qui pourroient s'élever entre les capitaines et les équipages des bâtimens de la nation dont ils soignent les intérêts, sans que les autorités locales puissent y entervenir, à moins que la conduite des équipages ou du capitaine ne troublât l'ordre ou la tranquillité du pays, ou que lesdits Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens Commerciaux ne réquissent leur intervention pour faire éxécuter ou maintenir leurs décisions. Bien entendu que cette espèce
de jugement ou d'arbitrage ne sauroit pourtant priver les parties contendantes du droit qu'elles ont, à leur retour de recourir aux autorités judiciares de leur patrie.

ARTICLE XIV.

Les dits Consuls , Vice Consuls, ou Agens, Commerciaux, seront

autorisés à requérir l'assistance des autorités locales pour l'arrestation,

la détention, et l'emprisonnement de déserteurs des navires . de guerre

et marchands de leur pays, et ils s'adresseront, pour cet objet, aux tri-

bunaux, juges et officiers compétens, et réclameront, par écrit, les

déserteurs sus mentionnés, en prouvant, par la communication des

registres des navires, ou rôles de l'équipage, ou par d'autres documens

VOL. VIII. 45

2E2

354

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

viduals formed part of the crews, and on this reclamation being thus substantiated , the surrender shall not be refused .

Deserters to

Such deserters, when arrested, shall be placed at the disposal of the

be placed at the said consuls, vice consuls, or commercial agents, and may be confined

disposition of the consuls, & c.

in the public prisons, at the request

and cost of those who claim them ,

in order to be sent to the vessels to which they belonged, or to others

of the same country. But, if not sent back within the space of two months, reckoning from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at

In case ofcrime on the part of the deserter.

liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause. It is understood , however, that, if the deserter should be found to
have committed any crime or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the tribunal before which the case shall be depending, shall have

pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into

effect.

ARTICLE XV.

In case of shipwreck, & c.

In case any vessel of one of the high contracting parties shall have been stranded or shipwrecked, or shall have suffered any other damage on the coasts of the dominions of the other, every aid and assistance shall be given to the persons shipwrecked or in danger, and passports shall be granted to them to return to their country. The shipwrecked vessels and merchandize, or their proceeds, if the same shall have been sold, shall be restored to their owners, or to those entitled thereto, if claimed within a year and a day, upon paying such costs of salvage as would be paid by national vessels in the same circumstances ; and the salvage companies shall not compel the acceptance of their services, except in the same cases, and after the same delays, as shall be granted to the captains and crews of national vessels. Moreover, the respective governments will take care that these companies do not commit any vexatious or arbitrary acts .

ARTICLE XVI.

Quarantine.

It is agreed that vessels arriving directly from the United States of America, at a port within the dominions of His majesty the King_of Sweden and Norway, or from the territories of his said Majesty in Europe, at a port of the United States, and provided with a bill of health granted by an officer having competent power to that effect, at the port whence such vessels shall have sailed, setting forth that no malignant or contagious diseases prevailed in that port, shall be subjected to no other quarantine than such as may be necessary for the visit of the healthofficer of the port where such vessel shall have arrived ; after which said vessels shall be allowed immediately to enter and unload their cargoes ; provided always, that there shall be on board no person who, during the voyage, shall have been attacked with any malignant or contagious diseases ; that such vessels shall not , during their passage, have communicated with any vessel liable , itself, to undergo a quarantine ; and that the country whence they came shall not, at that time, be so far infected or suspected, that, before their arrival, an ordinance had been issued , in consequence of which all vessels coming from that country should be considered as suspected, and consequently subject to quarantine.

ARTICLE XVII.

Certain arti-

The second, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth , eleventh , twelfth,

cles of the trea- thirteenth , fourteenth , fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, nine-
ty of April 3, teenth, twenty-first, twenty-second , twenty-third , and twenty-fifth articles 1783, revived.
of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce concluded at Paris on the third

of April, one thousand seven hundred eighty-three, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, and of His Majesty the King of Sweden, together with the first, second, fourth, and fifth separate arti

cies, signed on the same day by the same Plenipotentiaries, are revived ,

1REATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

355

officiels, que de tels individus ont fait partie desdits équipages, et cette réclamation ainsi prouvée l'extradition ne sera pas refusée.
De tels déserteurs , lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés, seront mis à la disposition desdits consuls, vice consuls, ou agens commerciaux, et pourront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques, à la réquisition et aux frais de ceux qui les reclament, pour être envoyés aux navires aux quels ils appartenoient, ou à d'autres de la même nation. Mais s'ils ne sont
pas renvoyés dans l'espace de deux mois, à compter du jour de leur arrestation, ils seront mis en liberté, et ne seront plus arrêtés pour la même cause.
Il est entendu , toutefois, que si le déserteur se trouvoit avoir commis quelque crime ou délit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition , jusqu'à ce que le tribunal nanti de l'affaire, aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.

ARTICLE XV.

Dans le cas où quelque bâtiment de l'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, aura échoué, fait naufrage, ou souffert quelqu' autre dommage sur les côtes de la domination de l'autre, il sera donné tout aide
et assistance aux personnes, naufragées, ou qui se trouveroient en danger, et il leur sera accordé des passeports pour retourner dans leur patrie. Les bâtimens et les marchandises naufragés, ou leur produit, s'ils ont été vendus, seront restitués à leurs propriétaires ou ayant cause, s'ils sont reclamés dans l'an et jour, en payant les frais de sauvetage que payeroient les nationaux dans les mêmes cas. Et les compagnies de sauvetage ne pourront faire accepter leurs services que dans les mêmes cas, et après les mêmes délais qui seroient accordés aux capitaine et aux équipages nationaux. Les Gouvernemens respectifs veilleront d'ailleurs à ce que ces compagnies ne se permettent point de vexations ou d'actes arbitraires.

ARTICLE XVI.

Il est convenu que les bâtimens qui arriveront directement des Etats

Unis d'Amérique, à un port de la domination de Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, ou des territoires de sa dite Majesté en Europe,

à un port des Etats Unis, et qui seroient pourvus d'un certificat de

santé, donné par l'officier compétent à cet égard du port d'où les bâti-

mens sont sortis, et assurant qu'aucune maladie maligne ou contagieuse n'existoit dans ce port, ne seront soumis à aucune autre quarantaine

que celle qui sera nécessaire pour la visite de l'officier de santé du port où les bâtimens seroient arrivés, après laquella il sera permis a ces

bâtimens d'entrer immédiatement, et de décharger leurs cargaisons,

bien entendu, toutefois, qu'il n'y ait eu personne à leur bord qui ait été attaqué pendant le voyage d'une maladie, maligne ou contagieuse, que

les bâtimens n'aient point communiqué dans leur traversée avec un

bâtiment qui seroit lui-même dans le cas de subir une quarantaine, et que la contrée d'où ils viendroient ne fut pas, à cette époque si générale-

ment infectée ou suspecte, qu'on ait rendu , avant leur arrivée, une

ordannance, d'après laquelle tous les bâtimens venant de cette contrée

seroient regardés comme suspects, et en conséquence, assujetis à une

quarantaine.

ARTICLE XVII.

Les articles deux, cinq, six , sept, huit, neuf, dix , onze , douze , treize, quartorze, quinze, seize, dix-sept, dix-huit, dix-neuf, vingt-un, vingtdeux, vingt-trois, et vingt-cinq, du Traité d'Amitié et de Commerce conclu à Paris le trois Avril , mil sept cent quatre-vingt-trois, par les Plénipotentiaires des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et de Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède, ainsi que les articles séparés un, deux, quatre et cinq qui furent signés le même jour par les mêmes Plénipotentiaires, sont remis en vigueur et rendus applicables à tous les pays sous la domination des

356

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

and made applicable to all the countries under the dominion of the present high contracting parties, and shall have the same force and value as if they were inserted in the context of the present treaty ; it being understood that the stipulations contained in the articles above cited, shall always be considered as in no manner affecting the conventions concluded by either party with other nations, during the interval between the expiration of the said treaty of one thousand seven hundred eighty-three, and the revival of said articles by the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, concluded at Stockholm by the present high contracting parties, on the fourth of September, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen .
ARTICLE XVIII.

In case of a vessel attempt. ing to enter a
b&lco.ckaded port,

Considering the remoteness of the respective countries of the two high contracting parties, and the uncertainty resulting therefrom with respect to the various events which may take place, it is agreed that a merchant vessel belonging to either of them, which may be bound to a
port supposed, at the time of its departure, to be blockaded, shall not, however, be captured or condemned for having attempted, a first time, to enter said port, unless it can be proved that said vessel could, and ought to have learned, during its voyage, that the blockade of the place in question still continued. But all vessels which, after having been warned off once, shall, during the same voyage, attempt a second time to enter the same blockaded port, during the continuance of said blockade, shall then subject themselves to be detained and condemned.

ARTICLE XIX.

The present
ttrienauteyisnhaflolrccoenfor ten years.

The present treaty shall continue in force for ten years, counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications; and if before the expiration of the first nine years, neither of the high contracting parties shall have announced, by an official notification, to the other, its intention to arrest the operation of said treaty, it shall remain binding for one year beyond that time, and so on, until the expiration of the twelve months which will follow a similar notification , whatever the time at which it may take place.
ARTICLE XX.

To be ratified within nine months.

The present treaty shall be ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and by His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington within the space of nine months from the signature, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty, by duplicates, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms. Done at Stockholm, the fourth of July, in the year
of Grace, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.

J. J. APPLETON, G. COUNT DE WETTERSTEDT,

(L. S.) (L. S.)

July 4, 1827.

SEPARATE ARTICLE .

Separate ar-

ticle.

Certain relations of proximity and ancient connections having led to

regulations for the importation of the products of the Kingdoms of Sweden and Norway into the Grand Duchy of Finland , and that of the

products of Finland into Sweden and Norway, in vessels of the respective countries, by special stipulations of a treaty still in force, and whose

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

357

Hautes Parties, actuellement Contractantes, et auront la même force e valeur que s'ils étoient insérés textuellement dans le présent Traité. Bien entendu que les stipulations contenues dans les articles précités seront toujours, censées ne rien changer aux conventions conclues de part et d'autre, avec d'autres nations dans l'intervalle écoulé entre l'ex-
piration dudit Traité de mil sept-cent quatre-vingt-trois, et la remise, en vigueur, des dits articles par le Traité de Commerce et de Navigation, conclu par les Hautes Parties actuellement Contractantes, à Stockholm, le quatre Septembre, mil-huit-cent seize.

ARTICLE XVIII.
Vu l'éloignement des pays respectifs des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes, et l'incertitude qui en résulte sur les divers événemens qui peuvent avoir lieu, il est convenu qu'un bâtiment marchand appartenant à l'une d'elles, qui se trouveroit destiné pour un port supposé bloqué au moment du départ de ce batiment, ne sera cependant pas capturé ou condamné pour avoir essayé une première fois d'entrer dans ledit port, à moins qu'il ne puisse être prouvé que ledit bâtiment avoit pû et dû apprendre en route que l'état de blocus de la place en question duroit encore : mais les bâtimens qui après avoir été renvoyés une fois, essayeroient pendant le même voyage d'entrer une seconde fois dans le même port bloqué, durant la continuation de ce blocus, se trouveront alors sujets à être détenus et condamnés.
ARTICLE XIX.
Le present traité sera en vigueur pendant dix années, à partir du jour de l'échange des ratifications, et, si avant l'expiration des neuf premières années, l'une ou l'autre des Hautes Parties Contractantes n'avoit pas annoncé à l'autre, par une notification officielle, son intention d'en faire cesser l'effet, ce traité restera obligatoire une année au delà et ainsi de suite jusqu'à l'expiration des douze mois qui suivront une semblable notification, à quelque époque quelle ait lieu.

ARTICLE XX.
Le présent traité sera ratifié par le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Senat, et par Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède et de Norvège, et les ratifications en seront échangées à Washington, dans l'espace de neuf mois après la signature, ou plutôt, si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent

traité en duplicata, et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes.

Fait à Stockholm, le quatre Juillet, l'an de Grace mil huit cent

vingt-sept.

J. J. APPLETON,

(L. S.)

G. COMTE DE WETTEERRSSTTEDT, (L. s.)

ARTICLE SEPARE .
Des rapports de proximité et d'anciennes relations ayant fait régler l'importation des productions des Royaumes des Suède et de Norvège dans le Grand Duché de Finlande, et celle des productions de la Finlande en Suède et en Norvège sur les bâtimens des pays respectifs, par des stipulations spéciales d'un traité encore en vigueur, et dont le renouvellement forme un objet de négociation actuelle, entre les cours de

358

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

renewal forms, at this time, the subject of a negotiation between the Courts of Sweden and Norway and Russia, said stipulations being, in no manner, connected with the existing regulations for foreign commerce in general , the two high contracting parties, anxious to remove from their commercial relations all kinds of ambiguity or motives of discussion, have agreed that the eighth, ninth, and tenth articles of the present treaty shall not be applicable either to the navigation and commerce above mentioned, nor, consequently, to the exceptions in the general tariff of custom house duties, and in the regulations of navigation resulting therefrom, nor to the special advantages which are, or may be granted to the importation of tallow and candles from Russia, founded upon equivalent advantages granted by Russia on certain articles of importation from Sweden and Norway.
The present Separate Article shall have the same force and value as if it were inserted, word for word, in the treaty signed this day, and shall be ratified at the same time.

In faith whereof, we, the undersigned, by virtue of our respective
full powers, have signed the present Separate Article, and affixed thereto the seals of our arms.

Done at Stockholm, the fourth of July, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.

J. J. APPLETON, G. COUNT DE WETTERSTEDT,

(L. 8.) (L. S. )

TREATY WITH SWEDEN. 1827.

359

Suède et de Norvège et de Russie, sans que lesdites stipulations soient liées aux réglemens existants pour le commerce étranger en général, les deux Hautes Parties Contractantes voulant écarter de leurs relations
commerciales toute espèce d'équivoque ou de motif de discussion, sont tombées d'accord que les articles huit, neuf et dix du présent traité, ne seront point applicables ni à la navigation et au commerce susmentionnés, et par conséquent aux exceptions dans les tarifs généraux des douanes, et dans les réglemens de navigation qui en résultent, ni aux avantages speciaux qui sont ou pourroient être donnés à l'importation du suif et des chandelles de Russie, motivés par des avantages équivalens accordés en Russie à des articles d'importation de Suède et de Norvège.

Le présent Article Séparé aura le même force et valeur que s'il etoit insére mot à mot dans le traité signé aujourd'hui , et sera ratifié en même tems.
En foi de quoi, nous soussignés, en vertu de nos pleins pouvoirs respectifs, avons signé le présent Article Séparé, et y avons apposé le cachet de nos armes.
Fait à Stockholm, le quatre Juillet, mil huit cent vingt sept.

J. J. APPLETON,

(L. s.)

G. COMTE DE WETTERSTEDT,

Aug. 6, 1827.

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN .

Ratifications
exchanged , April 2, 1828. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S.,
May 15, 1828. Object of the treaty.

THE United States of America, and His Majesty the King of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, being equally desirous to prevent, as far as possible, all hazard of misunderstanding between the two nations, with respect to the Territory on the North-West Coast of America, West of the Stoney or Rocky Mountains, after the expiration of the Third Article of the Convention concluded between them

Ante, p. 249.

on the 20th of October, 1818, and, also, with a view to give further time for maturing measures which shall have for their object a more definite settlement of the claims of each party to the said Territory,
have respectively named their Plenipotentiaries to treat and agree concerning a temporary renewal of the said Article, that is to say :

Negotiators.

The President of the United States of America, Albert Gallatin,
their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Britannick Majesty.

And His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , the Right Honourable Charles Grant, a member of His said Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council, a member of Parliament, and Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council for Affairs of Trade and Foreign Plantations ; and Henry Unwin Addington, Esquire,

Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found to be in due and proper form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Third article of convention of 20th Oct. 1818 , (ante, p. 249,) indefinite ly extended.

Art. 1. All the provisions of the third article of the Convention concluded between the United States of America, and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , on the 20th of October, 1818 , shall be, and they are, hereby, further indefinitely extended and continued in force, in the same manner as if all the provisions of the said Article were herein specifically recited.

Convention
may be annulled.

Art. 2. It shall be competent, however, to either of the contracting parties, in case either should think fit, at any time after the 20th of October, 1828, on giving due notice of twelve months to the other contracting party, to annul and abrogate this Convention ; and it shall , in such case, be accordingly entirely annulled and abrogated , after the expiration of the said term of notice.

Certain claims Art. 3. Nothing contained in this Convention , or in the Third Article not to be affect of the Convention of the 20th of October, 1818 , hereby continued in el by this treaty. force, shall be construed to impair, or in any manner affect, the claims
(360)

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1827.

361

which either of the contracting parties may have to any part of the country westward of the Stoney or Rocky Mountains.

Art. 4. The present Convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications Ratifications te

shall be exchanged in nine months, or sooner, if possible.

be exchanged in nine months.

In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms.

Done at London, the sixth day of August in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.

ALBERT GALLATIN, CHARLES GRANT, HENRY UNWIN ADDINGTON,

(L. S.) (L. S. (L. S.

RENEWAL OF COMMERCIAL CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN.
THE United States of America, and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, being desirous of continuing in force the existing commercial regulations between the two countries, which are contained in the Convention concluded between them on the 3d of July, 1815 , and further renewed by the Fourth Article of the Convention of the 20th October, 1819, have, for that purpose, named their respective Plenipotentiaries, that is to say :

Aug. 6, 1827.
Ratifications exchanged, April 2, 1828. Proclamation of the President
ofthe U. S., May 15, 1828.
Object of the convention.
Ante, p. 228. Ante, p. 249.

The President of the United States of America, Albert Gallatin, On the part of their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Britan- the U.S. nick Majesty,

And His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, the Right Honourable Charles Grant, a member of His said Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council, a member of Parliament, and Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council for Affairs of Trade and Foreign Plantations ; and Henry Unwin Addington , Esquire,

On the part of His Majesty.

Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full Articles agreed powers, found to be in due and proper form, have agreed upon and on. concluded the following articles :

Art. 1. All the provisions of the Convention concluded between the

United States of America, and His Majesty the King of the United

Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , on the 3d of July, 1815, and

further continued for the term of ten years by the Fourth Article ofthe

Convention of the 20th of October, 1818-with the exception therein

contained, as to St. Helena , are hereby further indefinitely, and without

the said exception , extended and continued in force, from the date of

the expiration of the said ten years, in the same manner as if all the

VOL. VIII. 46

2F

First.

362 Second 1 hird.

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1827.
provisions of the said Convention of the 3d of July, 1815, were herein specifically recited.
Art. 2. It shall be competent, however, to either of the contracting parties, in case either should think fit, at any time after the expiration of the said ten years ; that is, after the 20th of October, 1828, on giving due notice of twelve months to the other contracting party, to annul and abrogate this Convention ; and it shall, in such case, be accordingly entirely annulled and abrogated, after the expiration of the said term of notice.
Art. 3. The present Convention shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in nine months, or sooner if possible.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms.

Done at London, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.

ALBERT GALLATIN , CHARLES GRANT , HENRY UNWIN ADDINNGGTTOON.

(L. S.) L. 8..) (L. &)

CONVENTION

Sept. 29, 1827. Between the United States of America and Great Britain.

Ratifications

exchanged , April 2, 1828.

WHEREAS it is provided by the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent,

Proclamation that, in case the Commissioners appointed under that article, for the

ooff tthheePUr.esSi.d,ent May 15, 1828. Ante, p. 220.
Commissioners appointed as provided by the treaty of Ghent.

settlement of the boundary line therein described , should not be able to agree upon such boundary line, the report or reports of those Commissioners, stating the points on which they had differed, should be
submitted to some friendly Sovereign or State, and that the decision given by such Sovereign or State, on such points of difference, should be considered by the contracting Parties as final and conclusive : that

case having now arisen , and it having, therefore, become expedient to

proceed to and regulate the reference, as above described, the United

States of America and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , have, for that purpose, named their Plenipotentiaries, that is to say : the President of the United States has appointed Albert Gallatin , their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of His Britannick Majesty ; and his said Majesty, on his part, has appointed the Right Honorable Charles Grant, a member of Parliament, a member of His said Majesty's most Honorable Privy Council, and President of the Committee of the Privy Council for affairs of trade and foreign plantations, and Henry Unwin Addington, Esq. who, after having exchanged their respective full powers,

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1827.

363

found to be in due and proper form , have agreed to, and concluded the following articles.
Art. 1. It is agreed, that the points of difference which have arisen Reference of in the settlement of the boundary between the American and British differences to a dominions , as described in the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent, shall friendly power. be referred, as therein provided, to some friendly Sovereign or State, who shall be invited to investigate, and make a decision upon, such points of difference.
The two contracting Powers engage to proceed in concert, to the choice of such friendly Sovereign or State, as soon as the ratifications of this Convention shall have been exchanged, and to use their best endeavours to obtain a decision, if practicable, within two years after
the Arbiter shall have signified his consent to act as such.
Art. 2. The reports and documents, thereunto annexed , of the Com- Statements of missioners appointed to carry into execution the fifth article of the the respective Treaty of Ghent, being so voluminous and complicated, as to render it cdarsaewsntuopb.e improbable that any Sovereign or State should be willing or able to undertake the office of investigating and arbitrating upon them, it is hereby agreed to substitute for those reports, new and separate statements of the respective cases, severally drawn up by each of the contracting Parties, in such form and terms as each may think fit.
The said statements, when prepared, shall be mutually communicated to each other by the contracting Parties, that is to say : by the United States to His Britannick Majesty's Minister or Chargé d'Affaires at Washington, and by Great Britain to the Minister or Chargé d'Affaires of the United States at London , within fifteen months after the exchange of the ratifications of the present Convention.
After such communication shall have taken place, each Party shall have the power of drawing up a second and definitive statement, if it thinks fit so to do, in reply to the statement of the other Party, so communicated ; which definitive statements shall also be mutually communicated, in the same manner as aforesaid, to each other, by the contracting Parties, within twenty-one months after the exchange of the ratifications of the present Convention.
Art. 3. Each of the contracting Parties shall, within nine months Each of the after the exchange of ratifications of this Convention, communicate to tcioenstsrhaacltlincgopma-r. the other, in the same manner as aforesaid, all the evidence intended to municate to the be brought in support of its claim, beyond that which is contained in other, the evithe reports of the Commissioners, or papers thereunto annexed , and dtoenbceeoifnftereendd.ed other written documents laid before the Commission, under the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent.
Each of the contracting Parties shall be bound, on the application of the other Party, made within six months after the exchange of the ratifications, of this Convention , to give authentick copies of such individually specified acts of a publick nature, relating to the territory in question, intended to be laid as evidence before the Arbiter, as have been issued under the authority, or are in the exclusive possession, of each Party.
No maps, surveys, or topographical evidence of any description , shall be adduced by either Party, beyond that which is hereinafter stipulated, nor shall any fresh evidence of any description, be adduced or adverted to, by either Party, other than that mutually communicated or applied for, as aforesaid.
Each Party shall have full power to incorporate in , or annex to, either its first or second statement, any portion of the reports of the Commissioners, or papers thereunto annexed , and other written documents laid

364

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1827.

before the Commission under the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent,
or of the other evidence mutually communicated or applied for as above provided, which it may think fit.

Maps to be astnanteexmeednttso. the

Art. 4. The map called Mitchell's map, by which the framers of the Treaty of 1783 are acknowledged to have regulated their joint and official proceedings, and the map A, which has been agreed on by the contracting Parties, as a delineation of the water courses, and of the boundary lines in reference to the said water courses, as contended for by each Party respectively, and which has accordingly been signed by the above named Plenipotentiaries, at the same time with this Convention, shall be annexed to the statements of the contracting Parties, and
be the only maps that shall be considered as evidence, mutually acknowledged by the contracting Parties, of the topography of the country.
It shall, however, be lawful for either Party, to annex to its respective first statement, for the purposes of general illustration, any of the maps, surveys, or topographical delineations, which were filed with the Commissioners under the fifth article of the Treaty of Ghent, any engraved
map heretofore published, and also a transcript of the above mentioned map A, or of a section thereof, in which transcript each party may lay down the highlands, or other features of the country, as it shall think fit ; the water courses and the boundary lines, as claimed by each party, remaining as laid down in the said map A.
But this transcript, as well as all the other maps, surveys, or topographical delineations, other than the map A, and Mitchell's map, intended to be thus annexed , by either Party, to the respective statements, shall be communicated to the other Party, in the same manner as aforesaid, within nine months after the exchange of the ratifications of this Convention, and shall be subject to such objections and observations , as the other contracting Party may deem it expedient to make thereto, and shall annex to his first statement, either in the margin of such transcript, map or maps, or otherwise.

Statements, &c. to be delivbietrreadtitnog tphoewaerrwithin two years.

Art. 5. All the statements, papers, maps , and documents, above mentioned, and which shall have been mutually communicated as aforesaid, shall, without any addition , subtraction, or alteration, whatsoever, be
jointly and simultaneously delivered in to the arbitrating Sovereign or State, within two years after the exchange of ratifications of this Convention, unless the Arbiter should not, within that time, have consented

to act as such ; in which case all the said statements, papers, maps, and documents, shall be laid before him within six months after the time when he shall have consented so to act. No other statements, papers,

maps, or documents, shall ever be laid before the Arbiter, except as hereinafter provided.

In case the arbiter should desire further evidence, & c.

Art. 6. In order to facilitate the attainment of a just and sound decision on the part of the Arbiter, it is agreed that, in case the said Arbiter should desire further elucidation or evidence in regard to any specifick point contained in any of the said statements submitted to him, the requisition for such elucidation or evidence shall be simultaneously made to both Parties, who shall thereupon be permitted to bring further evidence, if required, and to make, each, a written reply to the specifick questions submitted by the said Arbiter, but no further ; and such evi-
dence and replies shall be immediately communicated by each Party to the other.
And in case the Arbiter should find the topographical evidence, laid as aforesaid before him, insufficient for the purposes of a sound and just decision , he shall have the power of ordering additional surveys to be made of any portions of the disputed boundary line or territory, as he

CONVENTION WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1827.

365

may think fit ; which surveys shall be made at the joint expence of the contracting Parties, and be considered as conclusive by them.

Art. 7. The decision of the Arbiter, when given, shall be taken as final and conclusive ; and it shall be carried, without reserve, into immediate effect, by Commissioners appointed for that purpose by the contracting Parties.

The decision oshfatllhebearfbiintaelr.

Art. 8. This Convention shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in nine months from the date hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In witness whereof, we, the respective Plenipotentiaries, have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seals of our arms.

Done at London, the twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven.

ALBERT GALLATIN, CHARLES GRANT,

(L. 8.)

HENRY UNWIN ADDINGTON, L. S.)

CONVENTION OF FRIENDSHIP, COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION ,

Dec. 20, 1827. Between the United States of America, and the Free Han-

Ratifications
exchanged, June 2 , 1828. Proclamation

seatic Republics ofLubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg. (a) THE United States of America, on the one part, and the Republic

ooff tthhee PUr.esSi.d,ent June 2 , 1828.
Object of said treaty.

and Free Hanseatic City of Lubeck, the Republic and Free Hanseatic City of Bremen, and the Republic and Free Hanseatic City of Hamburg, (each state for itself separately, ) on the other part, being desirous to give greater facility to their commercial intercourse, and to place the privileges of their navigation on a basis of the most extended liberality,

have resolved to fix, in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall be observed between the one and the other, by means of a

Convention of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation.

Negotiators.

For the attainment of this most desirable object , the President ofthe

United States of America has conferred full powers on Henry Clay,

their Secretary of State ; and the Senate of the Republic and Free

Hanseatic City of Lubeck, the Senate of the Republic and Free Han-

seatic City of Bremen , and the Senate of the Republic and Free Han-

seatic City of Hamburg, have conferred full powers on Vincent Rumpff,

their Minister Plenipotentiary near the United States of America, who,

after having exchanged their said full powers, found in due and proper

form, have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Imports.

The contracting parties agree, that whatever kind of produce, manufacture, or merchandise of any foreign country can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the United States in their own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the said Free Hanseatic Republics of Lubec, Bremen , and Hamburg , and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage or cargo of the vessel, shall be levied or collected , whether the importation be made in vessels of the United States, or of either of the said Hanseatic Republics. And, in like manner, that whatever kind of produce, manufacture , or merchandise of any foreign country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into either of the said Hanseatic Republics, in its own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the United States ; and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage or cargo of the vessel, shall be levied or collected, whether the
importation be made in vessels of the one party , or of the other. And they further agree, that whatever may be lawfully exported , or re-exported, by one party in its own vessels, to any foreign country, may, in like manner , be exported, or re-exported in the vessels of the other party. And the same bounties, duties, and drawbacks shall be allowed and collected , whether such exportation or re-exportation be made in vessels of the one party, or of the other. Nor shall higher, or other charges of any kind , be imposed in the ports of the one party, on vessels of the other, than are , or shall be, payable in the same ports by national vessels.

(a) Additional articles to the convention , agreed upon June 4, 1828, post 386. (366)

CONVENTION D'AMITIÉ, DE COMMERCE, ET DE NAVIGATION,
Entre les Républiques libres et Anséatiques, de Lubeck,
Bremen, et Hambourg, et les Etats Unis d'Amérique .
La République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Lubeck, la République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Bremen, et la République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Hambourg, (chacun de ces Etats pour soi séparément) d'une part ; et les Etats Unis d'Amérique, d'autre part ; désirant accorder plus de facilités à leurs relations commerciales, et établir les privileges de leur navigation sur les bases de la liberalité la plus étendue ; sont convenus d'arrêter d'une maniere claire, distincte, et positive, par une Convention d'amitié, de commerce, et de navigation, les règles qui doivent être observées entre eux.
Pour atteindre ce but désirable, le Sénat de la République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Lubeck, le Sénat de la République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Bremen, et le Sénat de la République et Ville libre et Anséatique de Hambourg, ont muni de pleins pouvoirs, Vincent Rumpff, leur Ministre Plénipotentiaire près les Etats Unis d'Amérique ; et le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique a muni de pleins pouvoirs Henri Clay, leur Secrétaire d'Etat ; lesquels, après avoir echangé leurs dits pleins pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté les articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
Les parties contractantes conviennent que toutes sortes de productions, manufactures, ou marchandises, provenant de quelque pays étranger que ce soit, qui, de temps à autre pourront être légalement importées dans l'une desdites Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen , et Hambourg par leurs propres bâtimens, pourront aussi y être importées par les bâtimens des Etats Unis ; et qu'il ne sera imposé ni perçu sur le tonnage ou la cargaison du bâtiment, d'autres, ni de plus forts droits, soit que l'importation ait lieu par bâtimens de l'une desdites Républiques, soit par ceux des Etats Unis. Et pareillement, que toutes sortes de productions, manufactures, ou marchandises, provenant de quelque pays étranger que ce soit, qui, de temps à autre, pourront être légalement importées dans les Etats Unis, par bâtimens desdits Etats, pourront également y être importées par les bâtimens desdites Républiques Anseatiques ; et qu'il ne sera imposé ni perçu, sur le tonnage ou la cargaison du bâtiment, d'autres, ni de plus forts droits, soit que l'importation ait lieu par bâtimens de l'une des parties , soit par ceux de l'autre. Elles conviennent en outre, que tout ce qui pourra être légalement exporté ou ré-exporté, pour quelque pays étranger que ce soit, par les bâtimens de l'une des parties contractantes, pourra également en étre exporté ou ré-exporté, par ceux de l'autre partie ; et les mêmes droits, primes et remboursemens de droits seront perçus et alloués soit que l'exportation ou la ré-exportation ait lieu par bâtimens de l'une des parties, soit par ceux de l'autre. Il ne sera imposé dans les ports de l'une des deux parties, sur les bâtimens de l'autre, aucuns droits ou charges, de quelque nature , qu'ils puissent être, plus forts ou autres que ceux qui seront imposés dans les mêmes ports sur les bâtimens nationaux.
(367)

368

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS. 1827.

ARTICLE II.

No higher duties to be paid
bcoynteriatchteirnogfptahreties, than are paid by other powers.

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation, into the United States, of any article, the produce or manufacture of the Free Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg ; and no
higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation, into either of the said republics, of any article, the produce or manufacture of the United States, than are, or shall be, payable on the like article, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country ; nor shall any

other, or higher duties or charges, be imposed by either party on the exportation of any articles to the United States, or to the Free Hanseatic

Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, or Hamburg, respectively, than such as are, or shall be, payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country ; nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the im-

portation or exportation of any article, the produce or manufacture of the United States, or of the Free Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bre-

men, or Hamburg, to, or from, the ports of the United States, or to, or from , the ports of the other party, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ARTICLE III.

No priority or No priority or preference shall be given, directly or indirectly, by any

preference tobe or either of the contracting parties, nor by any company, corporation,

given by either

party.

or agent, acting on their behalf, or under their authority, in the pur-

chase of any article, the growth, produce, or manufacture of their States,

respectively imported into the other, on account of, or in reference to,

the character of the vessel, whether it be of the one party or ofthe other,

in which such article was imported ; it being the true intent and mean-

ing of the contracting parties, that no distinction or difference whatever shall be made in this respect.

ARTICLE IV.

In considera-

In consideration of the limited extent of the Territories of the Re-

titieodn oefxttehnet loifm- publics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg, and of the intimate connecthe territories of tion of trade and navigation subsisting between these Republics, it is the republics of hereby stipulated and agreed, that any vessel which shall be owned exLubeck, & c. clusively by a citizen or citizens of any or either of them, and of which
the master shall also be a citizen of any or either of them, and provided
that three-fourths of the crew shall be citizens or subjects of any or
either of the said Republics, or of any or either of the States of the
confederation of Germany, such vessel, so owned and navigated, shall, for all the purposes of this Convention , be taken to be, and considered

as, a vessel belonging to Lubeck, Bremen, or Hamburg.

Any vessel belonging to either of the Hanseatic re-
publics, and coming to the U.S. , & c.

ARTICLE V.
Any vessel, together with her cargo, belonging to either of the Free Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, or Hamburg, and coming from either of the said ports to the United States, shall for all the purposes of this convention , be deemed to have cleared from the Republic to which such vessel belongs ; although, in fact, it may not have been the one from which she departed ; and any vessel of the United States, and her cargo, trading to the ports of Lubeck, Bremen, or Hamburg, directly, or in succession , shall , for the like purposes, be on the footing of a Hanseatic vessel , and her cargo, making the same voyage.

ARTICLE VI.

Further agree- It is likewise agreed that it shall be wholly free for all merchants,

ment.

commanders of ships, and other citizens of both parties, to manage,

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS . 1827.

369

ARTICLE IL
Il ne sera imposé d'autres, ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans les Républiques libres et Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg des articles provenant du sol ou des manufactures des Etats Unis ; et il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans les Etats Unis des articles provenant du sol ou des manufactures desdites Républiques, que ceux qui sont, ou seront imposés sur les mêmes articles provenant du sol ou des manufactures de tout autre pays étranger. De même, il ne sera imposé, par l'une des parties, sur l'exportation de quelque article que ce soit, pour les Républiques libres et Anséatiques, de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, ou pour les Etats Unis, respectivement, d'autres, ni de plus forts droits que ceux qui sont ou seront imposés sur l'exportation des mêmes articles pour tout autre pays étranger. De même, il ne sera imposé sur l'importation ou sur l'exportation des articles provenant du sol ou des manufactures des Républiques libres et Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, ou des Etats Unis á l'entrée ou à la sortie des ports des Républiques Anséatiques, ou de ceux de l'autre partie, aucune prohibition qui ne soit pas également applicable à toute autre nation.
ARTICLE III.
Il ne sera accordé, ni directement, ni indirectement, par l'une ou par l'autre des parties contractantes, ni par aucune compagnie, corporation, ou agent agissant en son nom, ou par son autorité, aucune priorité ou préférence quelconque, pour l'achat d' aucune production du sol ou de l' industrie deleurs Etats respectifs, importée, dans le territoire de l'autre à cause, ou en considération de la nationalité du navire qui aurait transporté cette production, soit qu'il appartienne à l'une des parties, soit à l'autre l'intention bien positive des deux parties contractantes étant qu'aucune différence ou distinction quelconque n'ait lieu à cet égard.
ARTICLE IV.
En considération de l'étendue limitée des territoires des Républiques de Lubeck, Bremen , et Hambourg, et de l'intime liaison de commerce et de navigation subsistante entre ces Républiques ; il est ici stipulé et convenu, que tout navire appartenant exclusivement à un ou plusieurs citoyens de l'une ou des autres desdites Républiques, et dont le capitaine sera aussi citoyen de l'une desdites Républiques ; pourvu que les trois quarts de l'équipage se composent de citoyens ou sujets de l'une ou de plusieurs desdites Républiques , ou d'un ou de plusieurs des Etats de la Confedération Germanique ; ledit navire sera considéré pour tous les objets de cette Convention, comme navire appartenant à Lubeck, Bremen, ou Hambourg.
ARTICLE V.
Tout bâtiment, ainsi que sa cargaison appartenant à l'une des Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, et venant de l'un des ports des susdites Républiques aux Etats Unis, sera considéré, pour tous les objets de cette Convention , comme venant de la République à laquelle il appartient, quoique, dans le fait, ce port ne soit pas celui d'où il aurait fait voile ; et tout bâtiment des Etats Unis, ainsi, que sa cargaison, trafiquant, directement, ou successivement, avec les ports de Lubeck, Bremen , et Hambourg, sera placé, pour ces mêmes objets, sur le même pied qu'un bâtiment Anséatique et sa cargaison, faisant le même voyage.
ARTICLE VI .
Il est, en outre, convenu, que les négocians, capitaines de navires, et autres citoyens des deux parties, pourront, eux-mêmes, diriger librement
VOL. VIII. 47

370

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS. 1827.

themselves, their own business, in all the pots and places subject to the jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and sale of their goods and merchandize, by wholesale or retail, as with respect to the loading, unloading and sending off their ships ; submitting themselves to the laws, decrees, and usages there established, to which native citizens are subjected ; they being, in all these cases, to be treated as citizens ofthe Republic in which they reside, or at least to be placed on a footing with the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation.

ARTICLE VII.

Power to dis-
pose of personal goods.

The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to dispose of their personal goods, within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation, testament, or otherwise ; and their representatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods , whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof, either by themselves or others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the
country wherein said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases : and if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs would be prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance on account of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years to dispose of the same, as they may think proper, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation , and exempt from all duties of detraction on the part of the government of the respective States.

ARTICLE VIII.

Special protection to persons
and property.

Both the contracting parties promise, and engage formally, to give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient, or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them, the tribunals of justice for their judicial recourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which they may employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at law ; and such citizens or agents, shall have as free opportunity as native citizens to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which may concern them ; and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited in the said trials.
ARTICLE IX.

No favor to be The contracting parties, desiring to live in peace and harmony with granted to other all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy, frank , and nations, which equally friendly with all, engage mutually not to grant any particular

diately become common.

favor to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation , if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE X.

Convention to The present convention shall be in force for the term of twelve years be in force for from the date hereof : and further , until the end of twelve months after twelve years. the Government of the United States, on the one part, or the free
Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen , or Hamburg, or either of
them, on the other part, shall have given notice of their intention to terminate the same ; each of the said contracting parties reserving to
itself the right of giving such notice to the other, at the end of the said
term of twelve years ; and it is hereby agreed between them, that, at

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS . 1827.

371

leurs propres affaires, dans tous les ports et places soumis à la juridiction de chacune d'elles, tant pour se qui a rapport à la consignation et à la vente en gros et en détail de leurs denrées et marchandises, que pour ce qui regarde le chargement, déchargement, et expédition de leurs bâtimens , en se conformant aux lois, décrets et usages y établis, auxquels les citoyens de l'etat sont assujettis ; ils seront, dans tous ces cas, traités comme sujets de la République dans laquelle ils résideront ; ou, du moins, ils seront placés sur le même pied que les citoyens ou sujets de la nation la plus favorisée.
ARTICLE VII.
Les citoyens de chacune des parties contractantes pourront disposer de leurs biens personnels, dans les limites de la jurisdiction de l'autre, par vente, donation , testament ou autrement ; et leurs héritiers, etant citoyens de l'autre partie, succéderont auxdits biens personnels, soit en vertu d'un testament, soit ab intestato ; ils pourront en prendre possession, soit en personne, soit par d'autres agissant en leur place ; et ils en disposeront, à leur volonté, en ne payant d'autres droits que ceux auxquels les habitans du pays où se trouvent lesdit biens, sont assujettis en pareille occasion. Et si , dans le cas de biens immeubles, lesdits héritiers ne pouvaient entrer en jouissance de l'héritage, à cause de leur qualité d'étrangers, il leur sera accordé un délai de trois ans, pour en disposer à leur gré, et pour en retirer le produit sans obstacle, et exempt de tous droits de détraction, de la part des gouvernemens des Etats respectifs.
ARTICLE VIII.
Les deux parties contractantes promettent, et s'engagent formellement d'accorder leur protection spéciale aux personnes et propriétés des citoyens de chacune d'elles, quelles que soient leurs occupations, qui pourraient se trouver dans les territoires soumis à leur jurisdiction, soit pour yvoyager soit pour y séjourner ; leur accordant pleine liberté de recourir
aux cours de justice, pour leurs affaires litigieuses, aux mêmes conditions qui seront accordées, par l'usage, aux citoyens du pays où ils se trouveront ; et d'employer, dans leur procès, pour la défense de leurs droits, tels avocats, avoués, notaires, agens ou mandataires qu'ils trouveront convenable de choisir ; et lesdits citoyens, et leurs agens, jouiront de la même liberté que ceux du pays d'assister aux décisions, et sentences des tribunaux, dans tous les cas où ils s'y trouveront intéressés, ainsi qu'à l'examen des témoins qui seraient appelés dans lesdits procès.
ARTICLE IX.
Les parties contractantes désirant vivre en paix et harmonie avec toutes les nations de la terre, en observant envers chacune, également, une politique franche et amicale ; s'engagent mutuellement à n'accorder aucune faveur particulière à d'autres nations, en fait de commerce et de navigation, qui ne devienne aussitôt commune à l'autre partie ; et celle-ci jouira de cette faveur gratuitement, si la concession est gratuite, ou en accordant la même compensation, si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE X.
La présente Convention sera en vigueur pendant douze ans à dater de ce jour ; et audelà de ce terme, jusqu'à l'expiration de douze mois après que l'un ou l'autre des Gouvernemens des Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen , et Hamburg, d'une part, ou le Gouvernement des Etats Unis, d'autre part, aura annoncé à l'autre son intention de la terminer ; chacune des parties contractantes se réservant le droit de faire à l'autre une telle déclaration , au bout des douze ans susmentionnés ; et il est convenu entre elles, qu'à l'expiration de douze mois

372

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1828.

the expiration of twelve months after such notice shall have been received by either of the parties from the other, this Convention, and all the provisions thereof, shall, altogether, cease and determine, as far as regards the States giving and receiving such notice ; it being always understood and agreed, that, if one or more ofthe Hanseatic Republics aforesaid, shall, at the expiration of twelve years from the date hereof, give or receive notice of the proposed termination of this Convention, it shall nevertheless, remain in full force and operation , as far as regards
the remaining Hanseatic Republics or Republic, which may not have given or received such notice.

ARTICLE XI.

To be ratified within nine months.

The present Convention being approved and ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof; and by the Senates of the Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg, the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington within nine months from the date hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the Plenipotentiaries of the contracting parties,
have signed the present Convention ; and have, thereto, affixed our seals.

Done, in quadruplicates, at the City of Washington, on the twentieth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, in the fifty- second year of the Independence of the United States of America.

(Signed)

H. CLAY,

(L. S.)

V. RUMPFF, (L. S.)

TREATY OF LIMITS ,

Jan. 12, 1828. Between the United States of America and the United

Ratifications
exchanged , April 5, 1832. Proclamation

ooff

tthhee

President U. S.,

April 5, 1832.

Post. p. 464.

Mexican States.
THE limits of the United States of America with the bordering Territories of Mexico having been fixed and designated by a solemn treaty, concluded and signed at Washington, on the twenty-second day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, between the respective Plenipotentiaries of the Government of the United States of America, on the one part, and of that of Spain on the other : And whereas, the said treaty having been sanctioned at a period when Mexico constituted a part of the Spanish Monarchy, it is deemed necessary now to confirm the validity of the aforesaid treaty of limits, regarding it as still in force and binding between the United States of America and the United Mexican States :

With this intention , the President of the United States of America

has appointed Joel Roberts Poinsett their Plenipotentiary ; and the President of the United Mexican States their Excellencies Sebastian

Camacho and José Ygnacio Esteva :

And the said Plenipotentiaries having exchanged their full powers have agreed upon and concluded, the following articles :

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1828.

373

après qu'une telle déclaration de l'une des parties aura été reçue par l'autre, cette Convention, et toutes les stipulations y contenues, cesseront d'être obligatoires, par rapport aux Etats qui donneront ou recevront cette déclaration : bien entendu et convenu que si l'une ou plusieurs desdites Républiques Anséatiques, à l'expiration de douze ans, à dater de ce jour, donnent ou reçoivent la déclaration de la cessasation proposée de cette Convention , ladite Convention restera, néanmoins, en pleine force et effet par rapport à celle ou à celles des Républiques Anséatiques, qui n'aura, ou qui n'auront, ni donné ni reçu cette déclaration.
ARTICLE XI.
La présente Convention étant approuvée et ratifée par les Sénats des Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, et par le Président des Etats Unis, par, et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat desdits Etats, les ratifications en seront échangées à Washington dans l'espace de neuf mois, à dater de ce jour, ou plutôt, si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires des parties contractantes ont signé la présente Convention, et y ont apposé leurs sceaux.

Fait par quadruplicata, en la Cité de Washington, le vingt Décembre, l'an de Grâce mil huit cent vingt sept, et le cinquante deuxième de l'Indépendance des Etats Unis d'Amérique.

V. RUMPFF, (L. 8.)

H. CLAY,

(L. S.)

TRATADO DE LIMITES ,
Entre los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos.
HABIENDOSE fijado y designado los limites de los Estados Unidos de America con los Territorios limitrofes de Megico por un tratado solemne, concluido y firmado en Washington, á veinte y dos de Febrero, de mil ochocientos diez y neuve, entre los Plenipotenciarios respectivos del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos por una parte, y de España por la otra ; por tanto, y en consideracion á que dicho tratado recibio su sancion en una epoca en que Megico formaba una parte de la Monarquia Española, se ha creido necesario al presente, declarar, y confirmar la validez de dicho tratado considerandolo vigente y obligatorio entre los Estados Unidos de Megico y los Estados Unidos de America : En consecuencia han sido nombrados los respectivos Plenipotenciarios , á saber :
El Presidente de los Estados Unidos de Megico á sus Excelencias los Señores Sebastian Camacho, y José Ygnacio Esteva ; y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America al Señor Joel Roberts Poinsett, su Enviado Extraordinario, y Ministro Plenipotenciario cerca del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Megico. Los que despues de haber cambiado sus plenos poderes, y hallados en buena, y debida forma, han convenido y concluido los articulos siguientes :
2G

374

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1828.

ARTICLE FIRST.

Boundary the same as fixed
by treaty of Washington, Feb. 22, 1817.

The dividing limits of the respective bordering territories of the United States of America and of the United Mexican States, being the same as were agreed and fixed upon by the abovementioned treaty of Washington, concluded and signed on the twenty-second day of February, in the year one thousand eight hundred and nineteen, the two high contracting parties will proceed forthwith to carry into full effect the third and fourth articles of said treaty, which are herein recited, as follows :
ARTICLE SECOND.

Boundary to begin on the
gaunldf eonfdMoenxitchoe, South Sea, in lat. 42.

The boundary line between the two countries, west of the Mississippi, shall begin on the gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north along the western bank of that river, to the 32d degree of latitude ; thence, by a line due north, to the degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches, or Red river ;

then, following the course of the Rio Roxo westward, to the degree of

longitude 100 west from London, and 23 from Washington ; then,

crossing the said Red river, and running thence by a line due north, to

the river Arkansas ; thence, following the course of the southern bank

of the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude 42 north ; and thence, by

that parallel of latitude, to the South sea : the whole being as laid down

in Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, im-

proved to the first of January, 1818. But, ifthe source of the Arkansas river shall be found to fall north or south of latitude 42, then the line

shall run from the said source due south or north, as the case may be,

Islands inthe Sabine, & c. to belong to the United States.

till it meets the said parallel of latitude 42 ; and thence, along the said parallel, to the South sea. All the islands in the Sabine, and the said Red and Arkansas rivers, throughout the course thus described, to belong to the United States ; but the use of the waters, and the navigation of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said rivers Roxo and Arkansas,

throughout the extent of the said boundary on their respective banks ,

shall be common to the respective inhabitants of both nations.

The two high contracting parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights, claims, and pretensions to the territories described by the

said line ; that is to say : the United States hereby cede to his Catholic

Majesty, and renounce forever, all their rights, claims, and pretensions to the territories lying west and south of the above described line ; and, in like manner, his Catholic Majesty cedes to the said United States all

his rights, claims, and pretensions to any territories east and north of

the said line ; and for himself, his heirs, and successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever.

Commissioners to be appointed to run the line.

ARTICLE THIRD.
To fix this line with more precision , and to place the landmarks which shall designate exactly the limits of both nations , each of the contracting parties shall appoint a commissioner and a surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of one year from the date of the ratification of this treaty, at Natchitoches, on the Red river, and proceed to run and mark the said line, from the mouth of the Sabine to the Red river, and from the Red river to the river Arkansas, and to ascertain the latitude of the source of the said river Arkansas, in conformity to what is agreed upon and stipulated , and the line of latitude 42, to the South sea. They shall make out plans, and keep journals of their proceedings ; and the result agreed upon by them shall be considered as part of this treaty, and shall have the same force as if it were inserted therein. The two Governments will amicably agree respecting the necessary articles to be furnished to those persons , and also as to their respective escorts, should such be deemed necessary.

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1828.

375

ARTICULO PRIMERO.
Siendo los limites divisorios de los Estados Unidos de Megico, y de los Estados Unidos de America en los terrenos colindantes de ambas Republicas los mismos que se acordaron, y fijaron en el dicho tratado de Washington, fecho á veinte y dos de Febrero de mil ochocientos diez y nueve ; se procederá inmediatamente á poner en ejecucion entre las dos dichas partes contratantes los articulos tercero y cuarto de dicho tratado, que á continuacion se insertan :
ARTICULO SECUNDO.
La linea divisoria entre los dos paises, al occidente del Misisipi arrancará del seno Megicano en la embocadura del rio Sabina en el mar, seguirá al norte, por la orilla occidental de este rio hasta el grado 32 de latitud ; desde allí por una linea recta al norte hasta al grado de latitud, en que entra en el Rio Rojo de Natchitoches, Red river ; y continuará por el curso del rio Rojo al oeste hasta el grado 100 de longitud occidental de Londres, y 23 de Washington, en que cortará este rio y seguirá, por una linea recta al norte, por el mismo grado hasta el rio Arkansas, cuya orilla meridional seguirá hasta su nacimiento en el grado 42 de latitud septentrional, y desde dicho punto se tirará una linea recta por el mismo paralelo de latitud , hasta el mar del Sur : todo segun el mapa de los Estados Unidos, de Melish, publicado en Filadelfia y perfeccionado en 1818. Pero si el nacimiento del rio Arkansas se hallase al norte, ó sur de dicho grado 42 de latitud, seguirá la linea desde el origen de dicho rio recta al Sur, ó norte, segun fuese necesario, hasta que encuentre el espresado grado 42 de latitud, y desde alli por el mismo paralelo hasta el mar del Sur. Pertenecerán á los Estados Unidos todas las yslas de los rios Sabina, Rojo de Natchitoches, y Arkansas, en la estension de todo el curso descrito ; pero el uso de las aguas, y la navigacion del Sabina, hasta el mar, y de los espresados rios Rojo y Arkansas, en toda la estension de sus mencionados limites en sus respectivas orillas será comun á los habitantes de las dos naciones.
Las dos altas partes contratantes convienen en ceder, y renunciar todos sus derechos, reclamaciones y pretenciones sobre los Territorios que se describen en esta linea, á saber : los Estados Unidos de America ceden á S. M. C. y renuncian para siempre todos sus derechos, reclamaciones, y pretensiones, á cualesquiera Territorios situados al oeste, y al sur de dicha linea ; y S. M. C. en igual forma, renuncia, y cede para siempre por sí y á nombre de sus herederos y sucesores, todos los derechos que tiene sobre los Territorios al este y al norte de la misma linea arriba descrita.
ARTICULO TERCERO.
Para fijar esta linea con mas precision , y establecer los mojones que señalen con ecsactitud los limites de ambas naciones, nombrara cada una de ellas un comisario y un geometra, que se juntarán antes del termino de un año contado desde la fecha de la ratificacion de este tratado, en Natchitoches, en las orillas del rio Rojo, y procederán á señalar, y demarcar dicha linea, desde la embocadura del Sabina hasta el rio Rojo, y de este hasta el rio Arkansas, y averiguar con certidumbre el origen del espresado rio Arkansas, y fijar segun queda estipulado, y convenido en este tratado, la linea que debe seguir desde el grado 42 de latitud hasta el mar Pacifico. Llevaran diarios, y levantaran planos de sus
operaciones, y el resultado convenido por ellos se tendra por parte de este tratado, y tendra la misma fuerza que se estuviese inserto en el : debiendo convenir amistosamente los dos Gobiernos, en el arreglo de cuanto necesiten estos individuos y en la escolta respectiva que deban
llevar siempre que se crea necesario.

376

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1828.

ARTICLE FOURTH.

Ratifications , when to be exchanged.

The present treaty shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington, within the term of four months, or sooner if possible.

In witness whereof, we, the respective Plenipotentiaries, have signed the same, and have hereunto affixed our respective seals.
Done at Mexico, this twelfth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight, in the fifty-second year of the Independence of the United States of America, and in the eighth of that of the United Mexican States.

J. R. POINSETT , S. CAMACHO, J. Y. ESTEVAN,

(L. s. ) (L. s.) (L. S.)

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE

To the Treaty of Limits concluded between the United States of America and the United Mexican States, on the 12th day of January, 1828.

Treaty ofJan. The time having elapsed which was stipulated for the exchange of

12, 1828, revived.

ratifications of the Treaty of Limits between the United Mexican States

and the United States of America, signed in Mexico on the 12th of

January, 1828 ; and both Republics being desirous that it should be

carried into full and complete effect, with all due solemnity, the Presi-

dent of the United States of America has fully empowered, on his part,

Anthony Butler, a citizen thereof, and Chargé d'Affaires of the said States in Mexico ; And the Vice-President of the United Mexican

States, acting as President thereof, has, in like manner, fully empowered

on his part their Excellencies Lucas Alaman, Secretary of State and

Foreign Relations, and Rafael Mangino, Secretary of the Treasury,

who after having exchanged their mutual powers, found to be ample and

in form , have agreed, and do hereby agree, on the following article :

Ratifications,
when to be exchanged.

The ratifications of the Treaty of Limits, concluded on the 12th January, 1828, shall be exchanged at the City of Washington, within the term of one year, counting from the date of this agreement, and sooner should it be possible.
The present Additional Article shall have the same force and effect as if it had been inserted word for word in the aforesaid treaty of the 12th of January, of 1828, and shall be approved and ratified in the manner prescribed by the Constitutions of the respective States.

In faith of which, the said Plenipotentiaries have hereunto set their hands and affixed their respective seals. Done in Mexico, the fifth of April, of the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, the fifty-fifth of the Independence of the United States of America and the eleventh of that of the United Mexican States.

A. BUTLER, LUCAS ALAMAN , RAFAEL MANGINO,

(L. S.) (L. S. (1. s)

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1828.

377

ARTICULO CUARTO.
El presente tratado sera ratificado, y las ratificaciones seran cambiadas en Washington en el termino de cuatro meses, ò antes si posible fuere

En fe de lo cual, los respectivos Plenipotencia rios han firmado el presente, sellandolo con sus sellos respectivos.
Fecho en Megico, a los doce dias del mes de Enero, del año del Señor mil ochocientos veinte y ocho, octavo de la Independencia de los Estados Unidos de Megico, y 52 de la de los Estados Unidos de America

S. CAMACHO, J. Y. ESTEVA, J. R. POINSETT,

(L. S.) (L. S.) (L. S.)

ARTICULO ADICCIONAL
Al Tratado de Limites celebrado entre los Estados Unidos Mejicanos los Estados Unidos de America, en 12 de Enero de 1828.

Habiendose pasado el tiempo señalado para el cambio de las ratificaciones del Tratado de Limites entre los Estados Unidos Mejicanos y los Estados Unidos de America, firmado en Mejico el dia 12 de Enero de 1828, deseosas ambas Republicas de que el referido tratado tenga su mas puntual cumplimiento llenandose todas las formalidades necesarias, y habiendo revestido con sus plenos poderes el Vice-Presidente en ejercicio del poder ejecutivo de los Estados Unidos Mejicanos á los Ecselentisi-
mos Señores Don Lucas Alaman, Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Relaciones Interiores y Esteriores, y Don Rafael Mangino, Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Hacienda ; y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America à Antonio Butler, ciudadano de los mismos Estados y Encargado de Negocios de ellos en Mejico, despues de cambiar sus plenos poderes que se encontraron en buena y debida forma, han convenido y convienen en el articulo seguiente :
Las ratificaciones del Tratado de Limites celebrado el 12 de Enero de 1828, se cambiarán en la ciudad de Washington dentro del termino de un año, contado desde la fecha de este convenio, ó antes si fuere posible.
El presente articulo adicional tendrá la misma fuerza y valor que si se hubiese insertado palabra por palabra, en el tratado mencionado de 12 de Enero de 1828, y será aprovado y ratificado en los terminos que establecen las Constituciones de los respectivos Estados.

En fé de lo cual , los referidos Plenipotenciarios lo hemos firmado y sellado con nuestros sellos respectivos. Fecho en Mejico, á los cinco dias del mes de Abril de mil ochocientos trienta y uno, undecimo de la Independencia de los Estados Unidos Mejicanos, y quincuagesimo quinto de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

LUCAS ALAMAN, RAFAEL MANGINO, A. BUTLER ,

(L. S.) (L. s.) (L. S.)

VOL. VIII. 48

2G2

TREATY OF COMMERCE AND NAVIGATION

Between the United States of America, and his Majesty the

King of Prussia. (a)

May 1 , 1828.
Ratifications exchanged , March 14 , 1829.
Proclamation ofthe President of the United States, March 14, 1829.
Object.
Representative of U. S.
Of Prussia.

THE United States of America, and his Majesty the King of Prussia, equally animated with the desire of maintaining the relations of good understanding, which have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective States, of extending, also, and consolidating the commercial intercourse between them ; and convinced that this object cannot better be accomplished, than by adopting the system of an entire freedom of navigation , and a perfect reciprocity, based upon principles of equity equally beneficial to both countries, and applicable in time of peace, as well as in time of war, have, in consequence, agreed to enter into negotiations for the conclusion of a treaty of navigation and commerce, for which purpose the President of the United States has conferred full powers on Henry Clay, their Secretary of State ; and his Majesty the King of Prussia has conferred like powers on the Sieur Ludwig Niederstetter, Chargé d'Affaires of his said Majesty near the United States ; and the said Plenipotentiaries having exchanged their said full powers, found in good and due form, have concluded and signed the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal liberty of commerce, & c.

There shall be between the territories of the high contracting parties, a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. The inhabitants of their respective States shall , mutually, have liberty to enter the ports, places, and rivers of the territories of each party, wherever foreign commerce is permitted. They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories, in order to attend to their affairs, and they shall enjoy, to that effect, the same security and protection as natives of the country wherein they reside, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing.

ARTICLE II.

Freedom of navigation, and pceirtyf.ect recipro

Prussian vessels arriving either laden or in ballast, in the ports of the United States of America ; and, reciprocally, vessels of the United States arriving either laden , or in ballast, in the ports of the kingdom of Prussia, shall be treated , on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels, coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage, light-houses, pilotage, salvage, and port charges, as well as to the fees and perquisites of public officers, and all other duties and charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit, of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever.

ARTICLE III.

All articles of commerce to
pay the same duties. in vessels of either nation .

All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil or the industry of the United States of America, or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the kingdom of Prussia, in Prussian vessels, may, also, be so imported in vessels of the United States of America, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name,

(a) For notes of the treaties between the United States and Prussia, ante, page 84. 378)

TRAITÉ DE COMMERCE ET DE NAVIGATION
Entre Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, et les Etats Unis d'Amérique.
SA Majesté le Roi de Prusse, et les Etats Unis d'Amérique, également animés du desir de maintenir les rapports de bonne intelligence qui ont si heureusement subsisté jusqu'ici entre leurs Etats respectifs, et d'en étendre et consolider les relations commerciales, et convaincus que cet objet ne sauroit être mieux rempli qu'en adoptant le systême d'une entiere liberté de navigation, et d'une parfaite réciprocité, basé sur des principes d'équité également avantageux aux deux pays, et applicables en temps de paix comme en temps de guerre ; sont, en conséquence convenus d'entrer en négociation pour conclure un traité de commerce et de navigation. A cet effet, Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse a muni de pleins pouvoirs le Sieur Ludwig Niederstetter, Chargé d'Af faires de Sa dite Majesté près les Etats Unis d'Amérique, et le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, a muni des mêmes pouvoirs Henri Clay, leur Secrétaire d'Etat ; lesquels Plénipotentiaires, après avoir échangé leurs dits pleins pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et signé les articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
Il y aura, entre les territoires des hautes parties contractantes, liberté et réciprocité de commerce et de navigation. Les habitans de leurs Etats respectifs pourront, réciproquement, entrer dans les ports, places et rivieres des territoires de chacune d'elles, partout où le commerce étranger est permis. Ils seront libres de s'y arrêter et résider dans quelque partie que ce soit desdits territoires, pour y vaquer à leurs affaires ; et ils jouiront, à cet effet, de la même sécurité et protection que les habitans du pays dans lequel ils résideront, à charge de se soumettre aux lois et ordonnances y établies.
ARTICLE II. Les bâtimens Prussiens arrivant, sur lest ou chargés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique ; et, réciproquement, les bâtimens des États Unis, arrivant, sur lest ou chargés, dans les ports du Royaume de Prusse, seront traités, à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour, et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les bâtimens nationaux venant du même lieu, par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux, de pilotage, de sauvetage, et de port, ainsi qu'aux vacations des officiers publics, et à tout autre droit ou charge, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques.
ARTICLE III. Toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce, provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis d'Amérique, ou de tout autre pays, qui pourront légalement être importés dans les ports du Royaume de Prusse, sur des bâtimens Prussiens, pourront également y être importés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres, ou plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce
(379)

380

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1828.

or to the profit of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been imported in Prussian vessels. And, reciprocally, all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil or of the industry of the kingdom of Prussia, or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the United States, in vessels of the said States, may, also, be so imported in Prussian vessels, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomi-
nation, levied in the name, or to the profit of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same
merchandise or produce had been imported in vessels of the United States of America.
ARTICLE IV.

The above provision further explained.

To prevent the possibility of any misunderstanding, it is hereby declared that the stipulations contained in the two preceding articles, are, to their full extent, applicable to Prussian vessels, and their cargoes, arriving in the ports of the United States of America ; and, reciprocally, to vessels of the said States and their cargoes, arriving in the ports of the kingdom of Prussia, whether the said vessels clear directly from the ports of the country to which they respectively belong, or from the ports of any other foreign country.
ARTICLE V.

Produce ofthe
parties put on the most favorable footing.

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States , of any article, the produce or manufacture of Prussia ; and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the kingdom of Prussia, of any article, the produce or manufacture of the United States , than are , or shall be, payable on the like article, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the importation or exportation of any article the produce or manufacture of the United States, or of Prussia, to, or from, the ports of the United States, or to, or from the ports of Prussia, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ARTICLE VI.

Vessels ofthe
parties put on the same foot-
ing, as to exDortations.

All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil or of the industry of the United States of America, or of any other country, which may be lawfully exported from the ports of the. said United States, in national vessels, may, also, be exported therefrom in Prussian vessels, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been exported in vessels of the United States of America.
An exact reciprocity shall be observed in the ports of the kingdom of Prussia, so that all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil or the industry of the said kingdom, or of any other country, which may be lawfully exported from Prussian ports in national vessels, may also be exported therefrom in vessels of the United States of America, without paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been exported in Prussian vessels.

ARTICLE VII.

Coastwise navigation excepted.

The preceding articles are not applicable to the coastwise navigation of the two countries, which is, respectively, reserved, by each of the high contracting parties, exclusively, to itself.

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1828.

381

soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que s'ils étoient importés

sur des bâtimens Prussiens. Et réciproquement, tout espèce de mar-

chandises et objets de commerce, provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du

Royaume de Prusse, ou de tout autre pays, qui pourront légalement être

importés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sur des bâtimens

desdits Etats, pourront également y être importés sur des bâtimens

Prussiens, sans payer d'autres ou plus forts droits ou charges, de quel-

que espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du

Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que s'ils etoient importés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis

d'Amérique.

ARTICLE IV.

Afin de prévenir tout mésentendu et équivoque possibles, il est declaré que les stipulations contenues dans les deux articles précédens, sont, dans toute leur plénitude, applicables aux bâtimens Prussiens et leurs cargaisons, arrivant dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique ; et réciproquement, aux bâtimens des dits Etats, et leurs cargaisons, arrivant dans les ports du Royaume de Prusse, soit que les dits bâtimens viennent des ports du pays auquel ils appartiennent, soit de ceux de tout autre pays étranger.
ARTICLE V.

Il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans les Etats Unis, des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du Royaume de Prusse ; et il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans le Royaume de Prusse, des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, que ceux qui sont, ou seront imposés sur les mêmes articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de tout autre pays étranger. De même il ne sera imposé sur l'importation ou sur l'exportation des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, ou du Royaume de Prusse, à l'entrée ou à la sortie des ports des Etats Unis, ou de ceux du Royaume de Prusse, aucune prohibition qui ne soit pas également applicable à toute autre nation.

ARTICLE VI.

Tout espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, ou de tout autre pays, qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports des dits Etats, sur des bâtimens nationaux, pourront également en être exportés sur des bâtimens Prussiens, sans payer d'autres ni de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'éstablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si ces mêmes marchandises ou denrées avoient été exportées par bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique.
Une parfaite réciprocité sera observée dans les ports du Royaume de Prusse, de sorte que toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce, provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du Royaume de Prusse, ou de tout autre pays, qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports du dit Royaume, sur des bâtimens nationaux , pourront également en être exportés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amerique, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'etablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si ces marchandises ou denrées avoient été exportées sur des bâtimens Prussiens.

ARTICLE VII.

Les articles précédens ne sont pas applicables à la navigation de côtes ou cabotage de chacun des deux pays, que l'une et l'autre des Hautes Parties Contractantes se réservent exclusivement.

382

TREATY WITH 1 RUSSIA. 1828.

ARTICLE VIII.

Neither party
tfeorgeinvcee atonygopordeson account of the importing bottom .

No priority or preference shall be given, directly or indirectly, by either of the contracting parties, nor by any company, corporation , or
agent, acting on their behalf, or under their authority, in the purchase of any article of commerce, lawfully imported , on account of, or in reference to, the character of the vessel, whether it be of the one party, or of the other, in which such article was imported : it being the true

intent and meaning of the contracting parties, that no distinction or difference whatever, shall be made in this respect.

ARTICLE IX.

Prospective provision for
maintaining the most favored
footing.

If either party shall, hereafter, grant to any other nation , any particular favor in navigation or commerce, it shall, immediately, become
common to the other party, freely, where it is freely granted to such other nation, or on yielding the same compensation , when the grant is conditional.

ARTICLE X.

Consuls, & c.

The two contracting parties have granted to each other the liberty of having, each in the ports of the other, Consuls, Vice-Consuls, Agents and Commissaries of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges and powers, as those of the most favored nations. But if any such Consul shall exercise commerce, they shall be submitted to the

same laws and usages to which the private individuals of their nation are submitted, in the same place. Jurisdiction of The Consuls, Vice-Consuls, and Commercial Agents shall have the consuls, & c. right, as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as 1846, ch. 105. may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews,

or of the captain, should disturb the order or tranquillity of the country ; or the said Consuls, Vice-Consuls, or Commercial Agents should require their assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into effect or

supported. It is, however, understood , that this species of judgment or arbitration shall not deprive the contending parties of the right they have to resort, on their return , to the judicial authority of their country.

ARTICLE XI.

Consuls, &c .
may require the aid of the local authorities.

The said Consuls, Vice-Consuls , and Commercial Agents, are autho rised to require the assistance of the local authorities, for the search, arrest, and imprisonment of the deserters from the ships of war and merchant vessels of their country. For this purpose they shall apply to the competent tribunals, judges, and officers, and shall, in writing, demand said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the registers of the vessels , the rolls of the crews, or by other official documents , that such individuals formed part of the crews ; and, on this reclamation being thus substantiated , the surrender shall not be refused. Such deserters , when arrested , shall be placed at the disposal of the said Consuls , ViceConsuls, or Commercial Agents, and may be confined in the public prisons, at the request and cost of those who shall claim them , in order to be sent to the vessels to which they belonged, or to others of the same country. But if not sent back within three months, from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause. However, if the deserter should be found to have

committed any crime or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the tribunal before which his case shall be depending shall have pronounced its sentence , and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1828.

383

ARTICLE VIII.
Il ne sera accordé, ni directement, ni indirectement, par l'une ou par l'autre des Parties Contractantes, ni par aucune compagnie, corporation, ou agent agissant en son nom, ou par son autorité, aucune priorité ou préférence quelconque, pour l'achat d'aucun objet de commerce, légalement importé, à cause ou en considération de la nationalité du navire qui auroit importé les dits objets, soit qu'il appartienne à l'une des Parties, soit à l'autre ; l'intention bien positive des Parties Contractantes, étant, qu'aucune différence ou distinction quelconque n'ait Lieu à cet égard.
ARTICLE IX.
Si l'une des parties contractantes accorde, par la suite, à d'autres nations quelque faveur particuliere, en fait de commerce ou de navigasion, cette faveur deviendra aussitot commune à l'autre partie, qui en jouira gratuitement, si la concession est gratuite, ou en accordant la même compensation si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE X.
Les deux parties contractantes se sont accordé mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs, des Consuls, Vice Consuls, Agens et Commissaires de leur choix, qui jouiront des mêmes privilèges et pouvoirs dont jouissent ceux des nations les plus favorisées ; mais dans le cas où les dits Consuls veuillent faire le commerce, ils seront soumis aux mêmes lois et usages, auxquels sont soumis les particuliers de leur nation à l'endroit où ils résident.
Les Consuls, Vice-Consuls, et Agens Commerciaux, auront le droit, comme tels, de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les différens qui pourroient s'élever entre les capitaines et les équipages des bâtimens de la nation dont ils soignent les intérèts, sans que les autorités locales puissent y intervenir, à moins que la conduite des équipages ou du capitaine ne troublât l'ordre ou la tranquillité du pays ; ou que les dits Consuls, Vice-Consuls, ou Agens Commerciaux , ne réquissent leur intervention pour faire exécuter ou maintenir leurs décisions ; bien entendu que cette espèce de jugement ou d'arbitrage, ne sauroit, pourtant, priver les parties contendantes du droit qu'elles ont, à leur retour de recourir aux autorités judiciaires de leur pays.
ARTICLE XI.
Les dits Consuls, Vice-Consuls, ou Agens Commerciaux, seront autorisés à requérir l'assistance des autorités locales, pour la recherche, l'arrestation, la détention , et l'emprisonnement, des déserteurs des navires de guerre et marchands de leur pays ; ils s'adresseront, pour cet objet, aux tribunaux, juges, et officiers compétens, et reclameront, par écrit, les deserteurs susmentionnés, en prouvant par la communication des régistres des navires, ou rôles de l'équipage ou par d'autres documens officiels, que de tels individus ont fait partie desdits équipages, et cette réclamation ainsi prouvée, l'extradition ne sera point refusée.
De tels déserteurs, lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés, seront mis à la disposition desdits Consuls, Vice-Consuls ou Agens Commerciaux, et pourront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques, à la réquisition et aux frais de ceux qui les reclament, pour être envoyés aux navires auxquels ils appartenoient, ou à d'autres de la même nation. Mais s'ils ne
sont pas renvoyés dans l'espace de trois mois , à compter du jour de leur arrestation , ils seront mis en liberté, et ne seront plus arrêtés pour la même cause. Toutefois, si le déserteur se trouvoit avoir commis quel-
que crime ou délit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition , jusqu'à ce que le tribunal saisi de l'affaire , aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.

384

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1828.

ARTICLE XII.

Certain stipulations in former treaties revived.

The twelfth article of the treaty of amity and commerce, concluded between the parties in 1785, and the articles from the thirteenth to the twenty-fourth, inclusive, of that which was concluded at Berlin in 1799, with the exception of the last paragraph in the nineteenth article,

relating to the treaties with Great Britain, are, hereby, revived with the

same force and virtue, as if they made part of the context of the present treaty ; it being, however, understood that the stipulations contained in the articles thus revived, shall be always considered as, in no

manner, affecting the treaties or conventions concluded by either party with other powers, during the interval between the expiration of the

said treaty of 1799, and the commencement of the operation of the present treaty.

Security of
neutral naviga tion to be the subject offuture
Laty.

The parties being still desirous, in conformity with their intention declared in the twelfth article of the said treaty of 1799, to establish
between themselves, or in concert with other maritime powers, further provisions to ensure just protection and freedom to neutral navigation and commerce, and which may, at the same time, advance the cause of civilization and humanity, engage again to treat on this subject, at some future and convenient period.

ARTICLE XIII.

Vessels enter. ing blockaded ports.

Considering the remoteness of the respective countries of the two high contracting parties, and the uncertainty resulting therefrom, with respect to the various events which may take place, it is agreed that a merchant vessel belonging to either of them, which may be bound to a port supposed, at the time of its departure to be blockaded, shall not, however, be captured or condemned, for having attempted, a first time, to enter said port, unless it can be proved that said vessel could, and ought to, have learnt, during its voyage, that the blockade of the place in question still continued. But all vessels which, after having been warned off once, shall, during the same voyage, attempt a second time to enter the same blockaded port, during the continuance of the said blockade, shall then subject themselves to be detained and condemned.

ARTICLE XIV.

Provisions as The citizens or subjects of each party shall have power to dispose of

tpoerpteyrsoofnaciltipro- their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by testament,

sens, & c.

donation, or otherwise, and their representatives, being citizens or sub-

jects of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods,

whether by testament, or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof,

either by themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose of the

same, at their will , paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.

And in case of the absence of the representative, such care shall be

taken of the said goods , as would be taken of the goods of a native, in

like case, until the lawful owner may take measures for receiving them .

And if question should arise among several claimants, to which of them

said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally by the laws and

judges of the land wherein the said goods are. And where, on the

death of any person holding real estate, within the territories of the one

party, such real estate would , by the laws of the land, descend on a

citizen or subject of the other, were he not disqualified by alienage,

such citizen or subject shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell the

same, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation , and exempt

from all duties of detraction, on the part of the Government of the respective States . But this article shall not derogate, in any manner

from the force of the laws already published, or hereafter to be

TREATY WITH PRUSSIA. 1828.

385

ARTICLE XII.
L'article douze du traité d'amitié et de commerce, conclu entre les parties en 1785 ; et les articles treize et suivans, jusqu'à l'article vingtquatre, inclusivement, du traité conclu à Berlin, en 1799, en exceptant le dernier paragraphe de l'article dix-neuf, touchant les traités avec la Grand Bretagne, sont remis en vigueur, et auront la même force et valeur que s'ils faisoient partie du présent Traité : il est entendu , cependant que les stipulations contenues dans les articles ainsi remis en vigueur, seront toujours censées ne rien changer aux Traités et conventions conclus de part et d'autre, avec d'autres Puissances, dans l'intervalle ecoulé entre l'expiration dudit Traité de 1799, et le commencement de la mise en vigueur du présent Traité.

Les Parties Contractantes désirant toujours conformément à l'intention déclarée dans l'Article Douze dudit Traité de 1799, pourvoir, entre Elles, ou conjointement avec d'autres Puissances maritimes, à des stipulations ultérieures qui puissent servir à garantir une juste protection et liberté au commerce et à la navigation des neutres, et à aider la cause de la civilisation et de l'humanité, l'engagent ici, comme alors à concerter ensemble sur ce sujet, à quelque époque future et convenable.
ARTICLE XIII.
Vû l'éloignement des Pays respectifs des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes, et l'incertitude qui en résulte sur les divers évenémens qui peuvent avoir lieu ; il est convenu qu' un bâtiment marchand, appartenant à l'Une d'Elles, qui se trouveroit destiné pour un port supposé bloqué, au moment du départ de ce bâtiment, ne sera cependant pas capturé ou condamné, pour avoir essayé une premiere fois d'entrer dans ledit port, à moins qu'il ne puisse être prouvé que ledit bâtiment avoit pû et dû apprendre en route que l'état de blocus de la place en question duroit encore : mais les bâtimens qui, après avoir été renvoyés une fois, essayeroient, pendant le même voyage d'entrer une seconde fois dans le même port bloqué, durant la continuation de ce blocus, se trouveront alors sujets à être détenus et condamnés.

ARTICLE XIV.

Les citoyens ou sujets de chacune des Parties Contractantes, auront, dans les Etats de l'autre, la liberté de disposer de leurs biens personnels,

soit par testament, donation, ou autrement, et leurs héritiers, étant sujets ou citoyens de l'autre Partie Contractante, succéderont à leurs biens,

soit en vertu d'un testament, ou ab intestato, et ils pourront en prendre possession, soit en personne, soit par d'autres agissant en leur place, et

en disposeront à leur volonté, en ne payant d'autres droits que ceux auxquels les habitans du pays où se trouvent lesdits biens sont assujettis en pareille occasion. En cas d'absence des héritiers, on prendra provisoirement desdits biens les mêmes soins qu'on auroit pris en pareille occasion des biens des natifs du pays, jusqu'à ce que le propriétaire

legitime ait agréé des arrangemens pour recueillir l'héritage. S'il s'éleve

des contestations entre differens prétendans ayant droit à la succession, elles seront décidées en dernier ressort, selon les lois et par les juges du pays où la succession est vacante. Et si , par la mort de quelque per-

sonne possédant des biens-fonds sur le territoire de l'une des Parties

Contractantes, ces biens-fonds venoient à passer, selon les lois du pays, à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie, celui-ci, si , par sa qualité d'étranger, il est inhabile à les posséder , obtiendra un délai convenable pour

les vendre, et pour en retirer le produit sans obstacle, et exempt de tout

droit de retenue, de la part du gouvernement des Etats respectifs. Mais

cet article ne dérogera en aucune maniere à la force des lois qui ont

VOL VIII. 49

2H

386

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS . 1828.

published by his Majesty the King of Prussia to prevent the emigration of his subjects.

ARTICLE XV.

Period during
which this treaty is to remain in force.

The present treaty shall continue in force for twelve years, counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications ; and if twelve months before the expiration of that period, neither of the high contracting parties shall have announced , by an official ratification to the other, its intention to arrest the operation of said treaty, it shall remain binding for one year beyond that time, and so on, until the expiration of the twelve months which will follow a similar notification, whatever the time at which it may take place.
ARTICLE XVI.

Period for ratification.

This treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by, and with, the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by his Majesty the King of Prussia, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the City of Washington, within nine months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the French and English languages ; and they have thereto affixed their seals declaring, nevertheless, that the signing in both languages shall not be brought into precedent, nor in any way operate to the prejudice of either party.

Done in triplicate at the City of Washington, on the first day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twentyeight ; and the fifty-second of the Independence of the United States of America.

H. CLAY ,

(L. S.)

LUDWIG NIEDERSTETTER, (L. s.)

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE

June 4 , 1828. To the Convention of friendship, commerce, and naviga-

Ratifications
exchanged, Jan. 14, 1829. Proclamation of the President of the U.S., Jan. 14 , 1829.
Object of addi tional article.

tion, concluded at Washington, on the twentieth day of December, 1827, between the United States of America and the Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg. (a)
THE United States of America and the Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg, wishing to favour their mutual com-

merce by affording, in their ports, every necessary assistance to their

respective vessels, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have further agreed.

upon the following additional article to the Convention of friendship,
commerce, and navigation , concluded at Washington on the twentieth
day of December, 1827, between the contracting parties.
Consuls, & c. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls may cause to be arrested the sailors, authorized to being part of the crews of the vessels of their respective countries, who arrest deserters, shall have deserted from the said vessels, in order to send them back & c.
and transport them out of the country. For which purpose, the said

(a) See the treaty of December 20 , 1827, ante, p. 366.

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS. 1828.

387

déja été publiées, ou qui le seront par la suite, par Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, pour prévenir l'émigration de ses sujets.
ARTICLE XV.
Le presént traité sera en vigueur pendant douze années, à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications, et si douze mois avant l'expiration de ce terme, ni l'une ni l'autre des hautes parties contractantes, n'annonce à l'autre par une déclaration officielle, son intention d'en faire cesser l'effet, ledit traité restera obligatoire pendant un an audelà de ce terme, et ainsi de suite, jusqu'à l'expiration des douze mois qui suivront une telle declaration, à quelque époque qu'elle ait lieu.
ARTICLE XVI.
Le présent traité sera approuvé et ratifié par Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, et par le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat desdits Etats, et les ratifications en seront échangées en la ville de Washington, dans l'espace de neuf mois, à dater de ce jour, ou plutôt, si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci-dessus, tant en Français qu'en Anglais, et y ont apposé leurs sceaux, déclarant, toutefois, que la signature dans ces deux langues, ne doit pas, par la suite, être citée comme example, ni en aucune maniere, porter préjudice aux parties contractantes.
Fait par triplicata en la cité de Washington , le premier Mai , l'an de Grâce mil huit cent vingt-huit, et le cinquante deuxieme de l'Indépendance des Etats Unis d'Amérique.

LUDWIG NIEDERSTETTER, (L. s.)

H. CLAY,

(L. 8.

ARTICLE ADDITIONEL
À la Convention d'amitié, de commerce, et de navigation, conclue à Washington le vingt Décembre, 1827 , entre les Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, et les Etats Unis d'Amérique.
LES Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg, et es Etats Unis d'Amérique, désirant favoriser mutuellement leur commerce, en donnant dans leurs ports, toute assistance nécessaire à leurs bâtimens respectifs, les soussignés Plénipotentiaires sont convenus , de plus, du suivant article additionel à la convention , d'amitié, de commerce, et de navigation , conclue à Washington le vingt Décembre, mil huit cent vingt-sept, entre les parties contractantes.
Les Consuls et Vice-Consuls pourront faire arrêter les matelots faisant partie des équipages des bâtimens de leurs pays respectifs, qui auraient déserté desdits bâtimens, pour les renvoyer et faire transporter hors du pays. Auquel effet lesdits Consuls et Vice-Consuls s'addresseront aux

388

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS . 1828.

Consuls and Vice-Consuls shall address themselves to the courts, judges,

and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters, in writing,

proving by an exhibition of the registers of the said vessels, or ship's roll, or other official document, that those men were part of said crews ;

and on this demand being so proved, (saving, however, where the contrary is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused ; and there shall be

Assistance to be afforded to consuls, & c.

given all aid and assistance to the said Consuls and Vice-Consuls, for the search, seizure, and arrest of the said deserters, who shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the country at their request and

expense, until they shall have found opportunity of sending them back. But, if they be not sent back within two months, to be counted from

the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

If deserter

It is understood, however, that if the deserter should be found to have

have committed any offence, his surrender to be
delayed. Present article to have the

committed any crime or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the tribunal before which the case shall be depending shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.
The present additional article shall have the same force and value as if it were inserted, word for word, in the Convention signed at Wash-

fsoarmmeinfgorpcaertasofif ington, on the twentieth day of December, one thousand eight hundred convention of and twenty-seven, and being approved and ratified by the President of

1827.

the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate

Ratifications to thereof, and by the Senates of the Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck,

be exchanged within nine months.

Bremen, and Hamburg, the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington within nine months from the date hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the undersigned, by virtue of our respective full powers, have signed the present additional article, and have thereto affixed our seals.

Done in quadruplicate at the City of Washington , on the fourth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight.

H. CLAY,

(L. S.)

V. RUMPFF, (L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH THE HANSEATIC REPUBLICS. 1828.

389

tribunaux, juges et officiers compétens, et leur feront, par écrit, la demande desdits déserteurs, en justifiant, par l'exhibition des régistres du bâtiment, ou rôle d'équipage, ou autres documens officiels, que ces hommes faisaient partie desdits équipages. Et sur cette demande, ainsi justifiée, sauf, toutefois la preuve contraire, l'extradition ne pourra être refusée ; et il sera donné toute aide et assistance aux dits Consuls et Vice-Consuls, pour la recherche, saisie et arrestation des susdits déserteurs, lesquels seront même détenus et gardés dans les prisons du pays, à leur réquisition et à leurs frais, jusqu'à ce qu'ils aient trouvé occasion de les renvoyer. Mais s'ils n'étaient renvoyés dans le délai de deux mois, à compter du jour de leur arrêt, ils seront élargis, et ne pourront plus être arrêtés pour la même cause.

Il est entendu, toutefois, que si le déserteur se trouvait avoir commis quelque crime ou délit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition, jusqu'à ce que le tribunal nanti de l'affaire aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.
Le présent article additionel aura la même force et valeur que s'il était inséré mot à mot dans la Convention, signée à Washington le vingt Décembre, mil huit cent vingt-sept, et étant approuvé et ratifié par les Sénats des Républiques Anséatiques de Lubeck, Bremen, et Hambourg ; et par le Président des Etats Unis, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat desdits Etats, les ratifications en seront échangées à Washington, dans l'espace de neuf mois, à dater de ce jour, ou plûtot, si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, nous, soussignés, en vertu de nos pleins pouvoirs respéctifs, avons signé le présent article additionel, et y avons apposé nos sceaux.
Fait par quadruplicata, en la Cité de Washington, le quatre Juin, l'an de Grâce mil huit cent vingt-huit.

V. RUMPFF, (L.

H. CLAY,

(L. S.)

2=2

Dec. 12, 1828.

TREATY WITH BRAZIL.

Ratifications exchanged , March 18, 1829. Proclamation of the President of the U. S., March 18, 1829.
Object.
Representative of U.S.
Of Brazil.

In the name of the Most Holy and Indivisible Trinity : The United States of America and His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil, desiring to establish a firm and permanent peace and friendship between both Nations, have resolved to fix, in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall in future be religiously observed between the one and the other, by means of a Treaty, or General Convention of Peace, Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation. For this most desirable object, the President of the United States has conferred full powers on William Tudor their Chargé d'Affaires at the Court of Brazil ; and His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil on the Most Illustrious and Most Excellent Marquez of Aracaty, a member of his Council, Gentleman of the Imperial Bed-chamber, Councillor of the

Treasury, Grand Cross of the Order of Aviz , Senator of the Empire, Minister and Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and Miguel de Souza Mello e Alvim , a member of his Council , Commander of the

Order of Aviz, Knight of the Imperial Order of the Cross, Chief of Division in the Imperial and National Navy, Minister and Secretary of State for the Marine, who after having exchanged their said full powers,

in due and proper form, have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Peace.

There shall be a perfect, firm and inviolable peace and friendship between the United States of America and their citizens, and his Imperial Majesty, his successors and subjects throughout their possessions and territories respectively, without distinction of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

The parties
put on the footing ofthe most favored nation.

The United States of America, and His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all , engage mutually, not to grant any particular favour to other nations in

respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately

The relations
between Brazil and Portugal
excepted.

become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional. It is understood , however, that the relations and conventions which now exist or may hereafter exist between Brazil and Portugal , shall form an exception to this article.

ARTICLE III.

Free intercourse.
Coasting trade excepted.

The two high contracting parties being likewise desirous of placing the commerce and navigation of their respective countries, on the liberal basis of perfect equality and reciprocity, mutually agree, that the citizens and subjects of each may frequent all the coasts and countries of the other, and reside and trade there in all kinds of produce, manufactures and merchandize : and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions, in navigation and commerce, which native citizens or sub-
jects do, or shall enjoy, submitting themselves, to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established, to which native citizens or subjects are subjected . But it is understood that this article does not include the coasting trade of either country, the regulation of which is reserved by the
parties respectively, according to their own separate laws . (390)

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828.

391

ARTICLE IV.

They likewise agree that whatever kind of produce, manufactures, or merchandize, of any foreign country, can be from time to time, lawfully imported into the United States, in their own vessels, may be also inported in vessels of Brazil : and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessel and her cargo, shall be levied and collected, whether the importation be made in the vessels of the one country or the

Vessels of both
countries on the stoamtheefiomoptoinrgt,aa-s tion of foreign goods into elther country.

other. And in like manner, that whatever kind of produce , manufac-

tures, or merchandize of any foreign country, can be, from time to time,

lawfully imported into the Empire of Brazil, in its own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the United States : and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessel and her cargo, shall be levied

or collected whether the importation be made in vessels of the one country, or of the other. And they agree that whatever may be law- Same as to fully exported, or re-exported from the one country in its own vessels, to exportation.

any foreign country, may in like manner, be exported or re-exported in the vessels of the other country. And the same bounties, duties, and

drawbacks, shall be allowed and collected, whether such exportation, or

re-exportation, be made in vessels of the United States, or of the Empire of Brazil. The government of the United States however consi- What vessels
dering the present state of the navigation of Brazil, agrees that a vessel tBorabzeilcioanns.idered shall be considered as Brazilian, when the proprietor and captain are

subjects of Brazil and the papers are in legal form.

ARTICLE V.
No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into Duties on imthe United States, of any articles the produce or manufactures of the ports and exEmpire of Brazil , and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the ports. importation into the Empire of Brazil , of any articles the produce or manufactures of the United States, than are or shall be payable on the like articles, being the produce or manufactures of any other foreign country : nor shall any higher or other duties, or charges be imposed in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles to the United States, or to the Empire of Brazil respectively, than such as are payable on the exportation of the like article to any other foreign country : nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the United States, or of the Empire of Brazil, to or from the territories of the United States, or to or from the territories of the Empire of Brazil, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ARTICLE VI.

It is likewise agreed , that it shall be wholly free for all merchants, commanders of ships, and other citizens or subjects of both countries, to manage themselves their own business, in all the ports and places subject to the jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and sale of their goods and merchandize by wholesale or retail, as with respect to the loading, unloading and sending off their ships ; they being in all these cases to be treated as citizens or subjects of the country in which they reside , or at least to be placed on a footing with the subjects or citizens of the most favoured nation.

All merchants. t&hec.m1ost va ed footing.

ARTICLE VII.

The citizens and subjects of neither of the contracting parties shall
be liable to any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels, cargoes, or merchandize or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any pub-
lic or private purpose whatever , without allowing to those interested , a sufficient indemnification.

To be secure
from detention without indemnification.

392

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828.

ARTICLE VIII.

Vessels in dis- Whenever the citizens or subjects of either of the contracting par

tress, & c. to be ties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports or received and

protected.

dominions of the other, with their vessels whether of merchant or of

war, public or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or

enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to

them all favour and protection, for repairing their ships, procuring pro-

visions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage

without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.

ARTICLE IX.

Property cap-
tured bypirates, & c. to be restored.

All the ships, merchandize and effects belonging to the citizens or subjects, of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates, whether within the limits of its jurisdiction , or on the high seas, and may be carried , or found in the rivers, roads, ports, bays, or dominions of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving in due and proper form, their rights before the competent tribunals : it being well understood , that the claim should be made within the term of one year by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of their respective Governments.
ARTICLE X.

Assistance in
case of shipwreck, & c.

When anyvessel belonging to the citizens or subjects of either ofthe contracting parties, shall be wrecked, foundered, or shall suffer any damage, on the coasts, or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to them all assistance and protection , in the same manner which is usual and customary with the vessels of the nation , where the damage happens, permitting them to unload the said vessel, if necessary, of its merchandize and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost or contribution whatever, until they may be exported , unless they be destined for consumption.
ARTICLE XL

Provision as

The citizens or subjects of each of the contracting parties shall have

to personal pro- power to dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the perty of citizens of the partics. other, by sale, donation, testament or otherwise ; and their representa-
tives, being citizens or subjects of the other party, shall succeed to the

said personal goods, whether by testament, or ab intestato, and they

may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or others acting for

them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country wherein said goods are, shall be subject Real property. to pay in like cases ; and if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs

would be prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance,

on account of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years, to dispose of the same, as they may think pro-

per, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation , nor any other charges than those which are imposed by the laws of the country.

ARTICLE XII.

Special protec-
tion to persons and property.

Both the contracting parties promise and engage formally to give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens and subjects of each other, of all occupations, who may be in their territories, subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice for their judicial intercourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary, with the natives or citizens and subjects of the country in which they may be ;
for which they may employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper in all their trials at law.

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828.

393

ARTICLE XIII.

It is likewise agreed, that the most perfect and entire security of conscience shall be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of both the contracting parties in the countries subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other, without their being liable to be disturbed or molested on account of their religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages ofthe country. Moreover the bodies of the citizens and subjects of one of the contracting parties who may die in the territories of the other, shall be buried in the usual burying grounds, or in other decent or suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

Security of conscience, &c.

ARTICLE XIV.

It shall be lawful for the citizens and subjects of the United States
of America, and of the Empire of Brazil, to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made who are the proprietors of the merchandize laden thereon, from any port to the places of those who now are, or who hereafter shall be, at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It shall likewise be lawful for the citizens and subjects aforesaid, to sail with the ships and merchandizes before mentioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security, from the places, ports, and havens, of those who are enemies of either party, without any opposition, or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy before mentioned, to neutral places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of one power, or under several. And it is hereby stipulated , that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free, and exempt, which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens or subjects of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemies : Provided, however, and it is hereby agreed , that the stipulations in this article contained, declaring that the flag shall cover the property, shall

Free ships to make free goods.
Contraband goods excepted mFarkeeefsrheiepspetro. sons, except, & c. Proviso.

be understood as applying to those Powers only, who recognize this principle ; but if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover
the property of enemies whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE XV.

It is likewise agreed , that in the case where the neutral flag of one Qualification of the contracting parties, shall protect the property of the enemies of ofthe principle. the other, by virtue of the above stipulation , it shall always be understood, that the neutral property found on board such enemy's vessels , shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and as such shall be liable to detention and confiscation , except such property as was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war , or even afterwards , if it
were done without the knowledge of it ; but the contracting parties agree that four months having elapsed after the declaration , their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that case the goods and merchandize of the neutral, embarked in such enemy's ship , shall be free.
VOL. VIII. 50

394

TREATY WITH BRAZIL . 1828.

ARTICLE XVI.

Contraband goods, what.

This liberty of commerce and navigation shall extend to all kinds of merchandizes, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband ; and under this name of contraband, or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended-
1st. Cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets, fuzees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberds, and grenades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms :
2dly. Bucklers, helmets, breast-plates , coats of mail , infantry belts ; and clothes made up in the form, and for a military use.
3dly. Cavalry belts and horses with their furniture ; 4thly. And generally all kinds of arms and instruments of iron, steel, brass and copper, or of any other materials manufactured, prepared and formed expressly to make war by sea or land.

ARTICLE XVII.

All other merchandise free.
Blockade, what.

All other merchandize and things not comprehended in the articles of contraband, expressly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce ,
so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are at that time besieged or blockaded ; and to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared, that those places only are besieged or blockaded, which are actually attacked by a force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral.

ARTICLE XVIII.

Contraband goods subject to confiscation .
Vessel not to be detained, unless, & c.

The articles of contraband, before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation, leaving free the rest of the cargo and the ship, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high seas, on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever the master,

captain or supercargo of said vessels, will deliver up the articles of con-

traband to the captor, unless the quantity of such articles be so great,

and of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on board the cap-

turing ship without great inconvenience : but in this and all the other

cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest

convenient and safe port, for trial and judgment, according to law.

Notice of blockade to be given, & c.
Free egress allowed in certain cases.

ARTICLE XIX.
And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or a place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is besieged, blockaded , or invested , it is agreed that every vessel so circumstanced, may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after warning of such blockade or investment from any officer commanding a vessel of the blockading forces, she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper : Nor shall any vessel of either that may have entered into such port before the same was actually besieged, blockaded, or invested by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo, nor if found therein , after the reduction and sur. render, shall such vessel or her cargo, be liable to confiscation, but they shall be restored to the owners thereof. And if any vessel having thus
entered the port before the blockade took place , shall take on board a cargo after the blockade be established , she shall be subject to being

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828.

39

warned by the blockading forces to return to the port blockaded, and discharge the said cargo, and if after receiving the said warning the vessel shall persist in going out with the cargo, she shall be liable to the same consequences as a vessel attempting to enter a blockaded port after being warned off by the blockading forces.
ARTICLE XX.
In order to prevent all kinds of disorder in the visiting and examina- Examination tion of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high toof bveesmsealdse, .how seas, they have agreed mutually, that whenever a vessel of war, public, or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain at the greatest distance compatible with making the visit under the circumstances of the sea and wind and the degree of suspicion attending the vessel to be visited, and shall send its smallest boat, in order to execute the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion, violence, or ill treatment, for which the commanders of the, said armed ships shall be responsible with their persons and property ; for which purpose the commanders of the said private armed vessels shall,
before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit ; and it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall in no case be required to go on board the examining vessel, for the purpose of exhibiting her papers, or for any other purpose whatever.
ARTICLE XXI.
To avoid all kind of vexation and abuse in the examination of the Vessels to bo papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens pcreortvaiidnedpawpietrhs. and subjects of the two contracting parties, they have agreed, and do agree, that in case one of them shall be engaged in war, the ships and vessels belonging to the citizens or subjects of the other, must be furnished with sea-letters or passports, expressing the name, property
and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of said vessel , in order that it may thereby appear that the ship really and truly belongs to the citizens or subjects of one of the parties ; they have likewise agreed, that such ships being laden, besides the said sea-letters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed, so that it may be known, whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship sailed, in the accustomed form ; without such requisites said vessel may be detained, to be adjudged by the competent tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be proved to be owing to accident, and be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.

ARTICLE XXII.
It is further agreed , that the stipulations above expressed,. relative to Vessels under the visiting and examining of vessels, shall apply only to those which convoy. sail without convoy : and when said vessel shall be under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of honor, that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

ARTICLE XXIII.

It is further agreed , that in all cases the established courts for prize causes, in the countries to which the prizes may be conducted , shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal of either
party, shall pronounce judgment against any vessel, or goods, or pro-

Prize courts
only to take cognizance of prizes. Proceedings.

396

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828.

perty claimed by the citizens or subjects of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reasons or motives, on which the same shall have been founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded , be delivered to the commander or agent of said vessel, without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Letters of marque ,& c. not &tocb.e accepted,

Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with another state, no citizen or subject of the other contracting party, shall accept a commission , or letter of marque, for the purpose of assist-
ing, or co-operating hostilely, with the said enemy, against the said party so at war, under the pain of being treated as a pirate.

ARTICLE XXV.

Provisions in case of war be ttiwese,e&n tch.e par-

If, by any fatality, which cannot be expected, and which God forbid ! the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war with each other, they have agreed, and do agree, now for then, that there shall be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts and in the ports of each other, and the term of one year to those who dwell in the interior, to arrange their business, and transport their effects wherever they please, giving to them the safe conduct necessary for it, which may serve as a sufficient protection until they arrive at the designated port. The citizens and subjects of all other occupations, who may be established in the territories or dominions of the United
States ; and ofthe Empire of Brazil, shall be respected and maintained in the full enjoyment of their personal liberty and property, unless their particular conduct shall cause them to forfeit this protection , which in consideration of humanity, the contracting parties engage to give then .

ARTICLE XXVI.

No propertyto be confiscated.

Neither the debts due from the individuals of the one nation , to the individuals of the other, nor shares nor money, which they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall ever in any event of war or national difference be sequestrated or confiscated.

ARTICLE XXVII.

Immunities of public agents.

Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have agreed and do agree, to grant to their Envoys, Ministers, and other public Agents, the same favors, immunities and exemptions, which those of the most favoured nation do, or shall enjoy : it being understood, that whatever favours, immunities, or privileges, the United States of America, or the Empire of Brazil may find it proper to give the Ministers and Public Agents of any other power, shall , by the same act, be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

Of consuls, St C.

ARTICLE XXVIII .
To make more effectual the protection which the United States and the Empire of Brazil shall afford in future to the navigation and commerce of the citizens and subjects of each other, they agree to receive and admit Consuls and Vice-Consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, of the Consuls, and Vice-Consuls of the most favoured nation : each contracting party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such Consuls may not seem convenient,

TREATY WITH BRAZIL. 1828 .

397

ARTICLE XXIX.

In order that the Consuls and Vice-Consuls of the two contracting
parties, may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, which belong to them, by their public character, they shall before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commissions or patent in due form, to the government to which they are accredited : and having obtained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such, by all the authorities, magistrates, and inhabitants, in the consular district in which they reside.
ARTICLE XXX.

Exequaturs.

It is likewise agreed, that the Consuls, their Secretaries, officers, and persons attached to the service of Consuls, they not being citizens or subjects of the country, in which the Consul resides, shall be exempt from all public service, and also from all kinds of taxes, imposts and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce, or their property, to which the citizens or subjects and inhabitants, native and foreign, of the country in which they reside are subject ; being in every thing besides subject to the laws of their respective States . The archives and papers of the Consulate shall be
respected inviolably, and under no pretext whatever, shall any magistrate seize or in any way interfere with them .

Privileges of consuls, &c.

ARTICLE XXXI.

The said Consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the Deserters from authorities of the country, for the arrest, detention and custody of de- vessels.

serters from public and private vessels of their country, and for that purpose they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessels or ships roll, or other public documents, that those men were part of said crews ; and on this demand

so proved, (saving however, where the contrary is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested, shall be put at the

disposal of said Consuls, and may be put in the public prison , at the request and expense of those who reclaim them, to be sent to the ships to which they belonged , or to others of the same nation. But if they be not sent back within two months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall no more be arrested for the same cause.
ARTICLE XXXII.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter, as circumstances will permit them, to form a Consular Convention , which shall declare specially the powers and immunities of the Consuls and Vice-Consuls of the respective parties.

Consular con veesntatbiloinsthoedb.e

ARTICLE XXXIII.
The United States of America, and the Emperor of Brazil desiring to make as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties by virtue of this treaty, or
general convention of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, have declared solemnly and do agree to the following points :
1st. The present treaty shall be in force for twelve years from the Treaty to be date hereof, and further until the end of one year after either of the in force twelve contracting parties shall have given notice to the other, of its intention years, &c. to terminate the same : each of the contracting parties reserving to itself the right of giving such notice to the other, at the end of said term of twelve years : and it is hereby agreed between them, that on the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by
I

398

TREATY WITH AUSTRIA. 1829.

either, from the other party, this treaty in all the parts relating to com merce and navigation, shall altogether cease and determine, and in al those parts which relate to peace and friendship, it shall be permanently

and perpetually binding on both powers.

Offences of

2dly. If any one or more of the citizens or subjects of either party

citizens, &c. not tlaotiaofnfsecotftthheereparties.

shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen or subject shall be held personally responsible for the same, and the harmony and
good correspondence between the nations shall not be interrupted thereby; each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

Proceedings othnisintfrreaacttyi.on of

3dly. If (which, indeed, cannot be expected, ) unfortunately, any of the articles contained in the present treaty, shall be violated or infringed in any way whatever, it is expressly stipulated , that neither of the contracting parties will order or authorize any acts of reprisal, nor declare war against the other, on complaints of injuries or damages until the said party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competen

proof, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused, or unreasonably delayed.

Treaty, how

4thly. Nothing in this treaty contained shall, however, be construed

to operate.

to operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with other

sovereigns or states.

Ratifications to be exchanged within nine
months.

The present treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Emperor
of Brazil, and the ratifications shall be exchanged within eight months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof we the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of his Majesty the Emperor of Brazil have signed and sealed these presents.

Done in the City of Rio de Janeiro, this twelfth day of the month of December in the year of our Lord Jesus Christ one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight.

(Signed)
W. TUDOR , MARQUEZ de ARACATY , MIGUEL de SOUZA MELLO e ALVIM,

(L. s.) (L. S.) (L. S. )

TREATY OF COMMERCE AND NAVIGATION

Aug. 27, 1829.
Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., declaring that
braeteifniceaxtciohnasnhg-ad ed, Feb. 10 , 1831 .
Motives to the treaty.

Between the United States of America, and his Majesty the
Emperor of Austria.
THE United States of America; and His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Hungary and Bohemia, equally animated with the desire of maintaining the relations of good understanding which have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective States, of extending, also, and consolidating the commercial intercourse between them, and convinced that this object cannot better be accomplished than by adopting the system of an entire freedom of navigation , and a perfect reciprocity, based upon principles of equity equally beneficial to both

TREATY WITH AUSTRIA. 1829.

399

countries, have, in consequence, agreed to enter into negotiations for the conclusion of a treaty of commerce and navigation , for which purpose the President of the United States has conferred full powers on MARTIN VAN BUREN, their Secretary of State ; and His Majesty the Emperor of Austria has conferred like powers on LEWIS, Baron de LEDERER, his said Majesty's Consul for the port of New York, and the said Plenipotentiaries having exchanged their said full powers, found in good and due form, have concluded and signed the following articles :

ARTICLE I. There shall be between the territories of the high con- Free trade

tracting parties a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. The established.

inhabitants of their respective States shall mutually have liberty to enter

the ports, places and rivers of the territories of each party, wherever

foreign commerce is permitted. They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories, in order to attend to

their commercial affairs ; and they shall enjoy, to that effect, the same

security, protection and privileges as natives of the country wherein they reside, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing.

ARTICLE II. Austrian vessels arriving, either laden or in ballast, in
the ports of the United States of America ; and, reciprocally, vessels of the United States arriving, either laden , or in ballast, in the ports of the dominions of Austria, shall be treated on their entrance, during their stay and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage, light-houses, pilotage and port charges, as well as to the fees and perquisites of public officers and all other duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever.

Tonnage du ties, &c.

ARTICLE III. All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, Duties on im ·

either the produce of the soil or the industry of the United States of America, or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the dominions of Austria, in Austrian vessels, may also be so imported in vessels of the United States of America, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been imported in Austrian vessels. And, reciprocally, all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil or of the industry of the dominions of Austria, or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the United States, in vessels of the said States, may also be so imported in Austrian vessels, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been imported in vessels of the United States of America.

ports.

ARTICLE IV. To prevent the possibility of any misunderstanding, it
is hereby declared that the stipulations contained in the two preceding articles, are, to their full extent, applicable to Austrian vessels and their cargoes, arriving in the ports of the United States of America ; and, reciprocally, to vessels of the said States and their cargoes arriving in the ports of the dominions of Austria, whether the said vessels clear directly from the ports ofthe country to which they respectively belong, or from the ports of any other foreign country.

Preceding stipaulllaytiaopnpslimcuatblue.

ARTICLE V. No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States, of any article the produce or manufac

400

TREATY WITH AUSTRIA. 1829.

Parties placed, ture of the dominions of Austria ; and no higher or other duties shall

as to duties, on be imposed on the importation into the dominions of Austria, of any the footing of the most favor- article the produce or manufacture of the United States, than are, or

ed nation.

shall be payable on the like article, being the produce or manufacture

of any other foreign country. Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on

the importation or exportation of any article the produce or manufac-

ture of the United States, or of the dominions of Austria, to or from

the ports of the United States, or to or from the ports of the dominions

of Austria, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

Duties, bounties, and draw. backs on ex-
ports.

ARTICLE VI. All kind of merchandize and articles of commerce,
either the produce of the soil or of the industry of the United States of America, or of any other country, which may be lawfully exported, or re-exported from the ports of the said United States, in national vessels, may also be exported, or re-exported therefrom in Austrian vessels, without paying other, or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been exported or re-exported, in vessels of the United States of America.
An exact reciprocity shall be observed in the ports of the dominions of Austria, so that all kinds of merchandise and articles of commerce either the produce of the soil or of the industry of the said dominions of Austria, or of any other country, which may be lawfully exported or re-exported, from Austrian ports, in national vessels, may also be exported or re-exported therefrom, in vessels of the United States of Ame-
rica, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been exported, or re-exported , in Austrian vessels.
And the same bounties and drawbacks shall be allowed, whether such exportation or re-exportation be made in vessels of the one party, or of the other.

Coastwise na- ARTICLE VII. It is expressly understood and agreed that the coast-

vigation.

wise navigation of both the contracting parties, is altogether excepted

from the operation of this treaty, and of every article thereof.

Vessels ofthe ARTICLE VIII. No priority or preference shall be given, directly, or parties to be indirectly, by either of the contracting parties, nor by any Company, qually favored. Corporation or Agent, acting on their behalf or under their authority,
in the purchase of any article of commerce, lawfully imported, on account of, or in reference to the character of the vessel, whether it be
of the one party or of the other, in which such article was imported , it being the true intent and meaning of the contracting parties that no distinction or difference whatever shall be made in this respect.

Future favors. ARTICLE IX. If either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation
any particular favor in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become common to the other party, freely, where it is freely granted to such other nation , or on yielding the same compensation, when the grant is conditional.

Consuls, & c.

ARTICLE X. The two contracting parties hereby reciprocally grant to each other, the liberty of having, each in the ports of the other, Consuls, Vice-Consuls, Agents and Commissaries of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges and powers as those of the most favoured nations. But if any such Consuls shall exercise commerce, they shall be subjected to the same laws and usages to which

TREATY WITH AUSTRIA. 1829.

401

the private individuals of their nation are subject in the same place, in respect of their commercial transactions.

ARTICLE XI. The citizens or subjects of each party shall have power Property of to dispose of their personal goods, within the jurisdiction of the other, individuals. by testament, donation, or otherwise ; and their representatives, being citizens or subjects of the other party, shall succeed to their personal goods, whether by testament, or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues, taxes or charges, only, as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said goods are shall be subject to pay in like cases. And in case of the absence of the represent-
ative, such care shall be taken of the said goods , as would be taken of the goods of a native in like case, until the lawful owner may take measures for receiving them. And if any question should arise among several claimants, to which of them said goods belong, the same shall be decided finally by the laws and Judges of the land wherein the said goods are. But this article shall not derogate, in any manner, from the force of the laws already published, or hereafter to be published by His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, to prevent the emigration of his subjects .

ARTICLE XII. The present treaty shall continue in force for ten years, Duration of counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications ; and if the treaty. twelve months before the expiration of that period, neither of the high contracting parties shall have announced by an official notification to the other, its intention to arrest the operation of said treaty, it shall remain binding for one year beyond that time, and so on, until the expiration of the twelve months which will follow a similar notification whatever the time at which it may take place.

ARTICLE XIII. This Treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof; and by His Majesty the Emperor of Austria ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the City of Washington, within twelve months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner, if possible.

Ratifications.

In faith whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed and sealed this treaty, both in the English and German languages, declaring, however, that, it having been originally composed in the former, the English version is to decide the interpretation, should any difference in regard to it unfortunately arise.

Done in triplicate, at Washington , this twenty-seventh day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twentynine.

M. VAN BUREN,

(L. S.

L. BARON DE LEDERER, (L. s.)

VOL. VIII. 51

212

March 28, 1830.

CONVENTION

Ratifications
exchanged, June 5 , 1830. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., June 5, 1830.

Between the United States of America and His Majesty
the King of Denmark, signed at Copenhagen the 28th
of March, 1830. (a)
THE United States of America, and His Majesty the King of Denmark, being equally desirous of terminating the discussions which have taken place between them, in respect to the claims and pretensions formed by the citizens of the United States and the subjects of Denmark having for their object, the seizure, condemnation or confiscation of their vessels, cargoes or property whatsoever, within the territory, or under the authority of the respective Governments, have named for this purpose, and furnished with their full powers : that is to say, the President of the United States of America, by, and with the advice and consent of the Senate, HENRY WHEATON, Chargé d'Affaires of the said United States at the Court of His Majesty, the King of Denmark, & c . and His Majesty the King of Denmark, the Sieur ERNEST HENRY, Count de Schimmelmann, Knight of the order of the Elephant, Grand Cross of the order of Dannebrog, decorated with the silver cross of the same order, His Minister (intime) of State, Chief of His Department of foreign affairs, etc. and the Sieur PAUL CHRISTIAN DE STEMANN, Knight of the order of the Elephant, Grand Cross of the order of Dannebrog, decorated with the silver cross of the same order, His Minister (intime) of State and of Justice, President of His Danish Chancery, etc. , and the said Plenipotentiaries, after having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :
ARTICLE I.

Renunciation

His Majesty the King of Denmark renounces the indemnities which

by Denmark of might be claimed from the Government of the United States of America , indemnity.
for the subjects of Denmark , on account of the seizure, detention and
condemnation or confiscation of their vessels, cargoes or property what-

soever, under the authority of the said Government ; and his Majesty Agreement to engages, moreover, to pay to the said Government, the sum of six hunindemnify U. S. dred and fifty thousand Spanish milled dollars, on account of the citi

zens of the United States, who have preferred claims relating to the

seizure, detention , condemnation or confiscation of their vessels, cargoes

or property whatsoever, by the public and private armed ships, or by

the tribunals of Denmark , or in the States subject to the Danish sceptre.

ARTICLE II.

Payment of Baid indemnity.

The payment of the above sum of six hundred and fifty thousand Spanish milled dollars , shall be made, in the times and manner following : On the 31st March, 1831 , two hundred and sixteen thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of a dollar .
On the 30th September, 1831 , two hundred and sixteen thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of a dollar .
On the 30th September, 1832 , two hundred and sixteen thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of a dollar.
To the second payment shall be added the interest for that, and for

(a) For notes of the treaties between the United States and Denmark, see ante , page 340. (402 )

CONVENTION
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi de
Dannemarc, signée à Copenhague, le 28 Mars, 1830.
LES Etats Unis d'Amerique et Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc, désirant également mettre fin aux discussions, qui se sont élevées, de part et d'autre, à l'égard des réclamations et prétentions formées par les citoyens des Etats Unis et les sujets du Dannemarc, ayant pour motif, la saisie, détention , condamnation , ou confiscation , de leurs navires, cargaisons, ou propriétés, quelconques, dans les territoires ou sous l'autorité des Gouvernemens respectifs, ont nommé à cet effet, et muni de leurs pleins-pouvoirs ; à savoir, le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat, le Sieur HENRY WHEATON, Chargé d'Affaires des dits Etats Unis près la cour de Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc etc. et Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc, le Sieur ERNEST HENRI , Comte de Schimmelmann, Chevalier de l'ordre de l'Eléphant, Grand Croix de celui du Dannebrog, décoré de la croix d'argent du même ordre, son Ministre (intime) d'Etat, chef de son Département des affaires étrangères etc. et le Sieur PAUL CHRÉtien de STEMANN, Chevalier de l'ordre de l'Eléphant, Grand Croix de celui du Dannebrog, décoré de la croix d'argent du même ordre, son Ministre (intime) d'Etat et de Justice, Président de sa Chancellerie Danoise, etc.; lesquels Plénipotentiaires après avoir échangé leurs pleins pouvoirs qui furent trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et conclu les articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc renonce aux indemnités, qui pourroient être réclamées du Gouvernement des Etats Unis d'Amérique, pour des sujets Danois, à cause des saisies, détentions, condamnations ou confiscations de leurs navires, cargaisons ou propriétés quelconques, sous l'autorité du dit Gouvernement ; et Sa Majesté s'engage en outre, à payer au dit Gouvernement, la somme de six cent cinquante mille piastres, en faveur des citoyens des Etats Unis, qui ont élevé des réclamations au sujet de la saisie, détention, condamnation ou confiscation de leurs navires, cargaisons ou propriétés quelconques, par les vaisseaux de guerre et armateurs, ou par les tribunaux du Dannemarc ou dans les Etats soumis au sceptre Danois.
ARTICLE II.
L'acquittement de la somme de six cent cinquante mille piastres se fera de la manière et aux termes suivans :
Le 31 Mars, 1831 , deux cent seize mille six cent soixante-six et deuxtiers de piastres.
Le 30 Septembre, 1831 , deux cent seize mille six cent soixante-six et deux-tiers de piastres.
Le 30 Septembre, 1832, deux cent seize mille six cent soixante-six et deux-tiers le piastres.
Au second erme de payement, seront ajoutés les intérêts pour cette
1403)

404

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK. 1830.

the last payment, at four per centum per annum, to be computed from the first payment, on the 31st March, 1831 .
To the third payment shall also be added the interest for that payment, at four per centum per annum, to be computed from the second payment, on the 30th September, 1831.
The above sums, thus specified in Spanish milled dollars, shall be paid in bills of exchange, at fifteen days sight, at Hamburg ; for the payment of which the Danish Government shall be responsible.
At the time when the first payment shall be made , on the 31st March 1831 , two obligations, corresponding to the two last payments to be effected for the capital and the interest thereof, shall be issued by the Direction for the public debt and the sinking fund of Denmark, to the order of the Department of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, and assigned to the Government of the United States. By the said obligations, His Majesty the King of Denmark shall acknowledge himself debtor, for the sums not yet paid to the Government of the United States of America, and the same shall be delivered to such person or persons, as may be
authorized to receive the same by the said Government ; and when the said obligations are to be discharged, according to the tenor thereof, by the Danish Government, the person or persons authorized by the Government of the United States, to receive the stipulated payments, shall deliver up the said obligations with receipts for the amount thereof, from the said Government.

ARTICLE III.

A board of commissioners
ttoo basecearptpaoiinnttehde validity, &c. of claims.
1831 , ch. 36.

To ascertain the full amount, and validity of the claims , mentioned in Article I, a Board of Commissioners , consisting of three citizens of the United States, shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, who shall meet at Washington , and
within the space of two years from the time of their first meeting shall receive, examine and decide upon, the amount and validity of all such claims, according to the merits of the several cases, and to justice, equity and the law of nations.

The Commissioners shall take an oath or affirmation , to be entered in the journal of their proceedings, for the faithful and diligent discharge of their duties.
In case of the death, sickness or necessary absence of any Commissioner, his place may be supplied by the appointment of another Commissioner, in the manner before mentioned, or during the recess of the Senate, by the President of the United States. The Commissioners shall be authorized to hear and examine, on oath or affirmation , every question relating to such claims, and to receive all suitable authentic testimony concerning the same.
In order to facilitate the proceedings of this Board, His Majesty the King of Denmark engages, when thereunto required, to cause to be delivered to any person or persons, who shall be duly authorized for that purpose , by the Government of the United States, in addition to the papers already delivered, all the acts, documents , ships' papers and prize proceedings, which may still remain in the archives of the High Court of Admiralty, or the Prize Tribunals of Denmark, relating to the seizure, detention , condemnation or confiscation, of the vessels, cargoes or property whatsoever, belonging to the citizens of the United States of America before the said tribunals.
The Commissioners shall award , and cause to be distributed among
the several parties, whose claims shall be allowed by the Board , the sum mentioned in Article I and II , in a ratable proportion to the amount of the respective claims thus allowed.

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK . 1830.

405

somme, et pour celle à payer au dernier terme, de quatre pour cent par an, à compter depuis le terme du premier payement du 31 Mars, 1831 .
Au troisième terme seront également ajoutés les intérêts pour cette dernière somme de quatre pour cent par an, à compter du second terme du 30 Septembre, 1831.
Les sommes ci-dessus spécifiées en piastres seront acquittées par des lettres de change, à quinze jours de vue, payables à Hambourg, pour le payement des quelles, le Gouvernement Danois restera résponsable.
En même tems que le payement du premier terme du 31 Mars , 1831 , aura lieu, deux obligations, qui corresponderont aux deux derniers terms ci-dessus indiqués, pour le capital et les intérêts, seront émises par la Direction de la dette d'Etat et du fond d'amortissement du Dannemarc, à l'ordre du Département des affaires étrangères du Dannemarc, et transportées au Gouvernement des Etats Unis. En vertu de ces obligations, Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc, se reconnoîtra, comme débiteur des sommes point encore payées au Gouvernement des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et elles seront délivrées à celui ou à ceux qui seront dûment autorisés à cet effet, par le dit Gouvernement. Quand l'acquittement de ces obligations s'effectuera dans les termes qu'elles sont remboursables de la part du Gouvernement Danois, la personne ou les personnes dûment autorisées par le Gouvernement des Etats Unis pour recevoir le payement stipulé, remettront en même temps, ces obligations munies des quittances du dit Gouvernement.
ARTICLE III.
Pour déterminer le montant précis et la validité des réclamations des citoyens des Etats Unis, mentionnées dans l'article I, une Commission composée de trois citoyens des Etats Unis, sera nommée par le Président, par et avec, l'avis et le consentement du Sénat ; ces Commissaires s'assembleront à Washington, et avant que deux ans, à compter du jour de leur première séance, se seront écoulés, ils doivent avoir reçu toutes ces réclamations, et avoir examiné et décidé leur montant et leur validité, d'après les circonstances spéciales de chaque cas, la justice, l'équité et le droit des gens.
Les Commissaires prêteront serment, ou donneront des affirmations à insérer dans le journal de leurs procédés, qu'ils rempliront fidèlement et assidûment leurs devoirs.
En cas de décès, de maladie ou d'absence indispensable d'un des Commissaires, sa place sera remplie par la nomination d'un autre Commissaire de la manière sus-mentionée, ou durant les vacances du Sénat, par le Président des Etats Unis.
Les Commissaires seront autorisés à se faire rendre compte, et à examiner chaque question rélative à ces réclamations, et à se faire donner sous serment ou affirmation, tous les témoignages convenables et authentiques qui les concernent.
A fin de faciliter les travaux de cette commission, Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc, s'engage lorsque la réquisition en sera faite, outre les documens déjà remis à faire délivrer à celui ou à ceux, qui seront dûment autorisés à cet effet, par le Gouvernement des Etats Unis, tous les actes, documens, papiers de bord, et pièces de procès qui pourroient encore se trouver dans les archives de la Haute Cour d'Amirauté, ou des tribunaux de prises du Dannemarc, rélativement à la saisie, détention, condamnation ou confiscation des navires, cargaisons ou propriétés quelconques, des citoyens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par devant ces tribunaux.
La dite Commission adjugera et fera distribuer entre les différentes parties dont elle admettra les réclamations, les sommes mentionnées dans l'article I et II, dans la proportion et pro rata à leurs réclamations respectives, qui auront été ainsi admises.

406

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK. 1830.

ARTICLE IV.

No further claims shall be
presented by U. S.

In consideration of the renunciation and payments mentioned in Arti cle I and II, on the part of His Majesty the King of Denmark, the Government of the United States declares itself entirely satisfied, not only in what concerns the said Government, but also in what concerns the citizens of the said United States, on account of the claims hitherto preferred, or which may hereafter be preferred, relating to the seizure, detention, condemnation or confiscation, of their vessels, cargoes, or property whatsoever, which in the last maritime war of Denmark, have taken place under the flag of Denmark, or in the States subject to the Danish sceptre ; and the said claims shall consequently be regarded as definitively and irrevocably terminated.

ARTICLE V.

The present
convention only caapspleisctahbelreetionthe mentioned.

The intention of the two high contracting parties being solely to terminate, definitively and irrevocably, all the claims which have hitherto been preferred, they expressly declare, that the present Convention is only applicable to the cases therein mentioned ; and, having no other object, can never, hereafter, be invoked by one party or the other as a precedent or rule for the future.

ARTICLE VI.

Io be ratified within ten months.

The present Convention shall be duly ratified by the high contracting parties, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington, in the space of ten months, or sooner if possible.

In faith thereof, and in virtue of our respective full powers, we have signed the present Convention, and have thereunto set the seals of our arms.

Done at Copenhagen, this 28th day of March, 1830 .
E. H. SCHIMMELMANN, (L. S.) STEMANN , (L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH DENMARK. 1830.

407

ARTICLE IV.
Moyenant les rénonciations et payemens, mentionnées dans l'article I et II, de la part de Sa Majesté le Roi de Dannemarc, le Gouvernement des Etats Unis déclare, qu'il se regarde comme entièrement satisfait, non seulement pour ce qui le concerne, mais aussi pour ce qui concerne les citoyens des dits Etats, à raison des réclamations mises en avant jusqu'ici ou qui pourroient être élevées à l'avenir, ayant pour objet la saisie, détention, condamnation ou confiscation de leurs navires, cargaisons ou propriétés quelconques, qui dans la dernière guerre maritime du Dannemarc, ont eu lieu sous le pavillon de Dannemarc, ou dans les Etats soumis au sceptre Danois, et les dites réclamations seront par conséquent régardées comme définitivement et irrévocablement terminées.
ARTICLE V. L'intention des deux Hautes Parties Contractantes étant, uniquement, de terminer définitivement et irrévocablement, toutes les réclamations qui, jusqu'ici, ont eu lieu, elles déclarent expressement, que la présente Convention n'est applicable qu'aux cas désignés, et que n'ayant d'autre but, elle ne saura jamais de part ou d'autre dans l'avenir, être invoquée comme un précédent, ou comme règle pour le futur.
ARTICLE VI.
La présente Convention sera dûment ratifiée par les Hautes Parties Contractantes, et les ratifications seront échangées à Washington, dans l'espace de dix mois, ou plutôt, si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, et en vertu de nos pleins pouvoirs respectifs, nous avons signé la présente Convention et y fait apposer les sceaux de nos armes.
Fait à Copenhague, ce 28me jour de Mars, 1830.
HENRY WHEATON, (L. s.)

May 7, 1830.

TREATY WITH THE OTTOMAN PORTE . (a)

Ratified Feb. 2, 1831. Proclamation of the President of the United

The object of this firm instrument, and the motive of this writing well drawn up, is, that--
No treaty or diplomatic and official convention, having, heretofore,

States, 1832.

Feb.

4,

Motives to

treaty .

existed , between the Sublime Porte, of perpetual duration , and the United States of America ; at this time, in consideration of the desire formerly expressed, and of repeated propositions which have lately been

renewed by that power, and in consequence of the wish entertained by

the Sublime Porte to testify to the United States of America , its senti-

ments of friendship,-We, the Undersigned, Commissioners, invested

with the high office of Chief of the Chancery of State of the Sublime

Porte, existing forever, having been permitted by His very Noble Impe-

rial Majesty to negotiate and conclude a treaty, and having thereupon

conferred with our friend, the honorable Charles Rhind, who has come

to this Imperial Residence, furnished with full powers to negotiate, settle,

and conclude, the articles of a treaty, separately and jointly with the

other two Commissioners, Commodore Biddle and David Offley, now at

Smyrna, have arranged, agreed upon and concluded, the following articles :

Merchants of the parties put, as to duties, on
the footing of
the most favored nation.

ARTICLE I. Merchants of the Sublime Porte , whether Musselmans or Rayahs, going and coming, in the countries, provinces, and ports, of the United States of America, or proceeding from one port to another, or from the ports of the United States to those of other countries, shall pay the same duties and other imposts that are paid by the most favored nations ; and they shall not be vexed by the exaction of higher duties ; and in travelling by sea and by land, all the privileges and distinctions observed towards the subjects of other Powers, shall serve as a rule, and shall be observed towards the merchants and subjects of the Sublime Porte. In like manner, American merchants who shall come to the well defended countries and ports of the Sublime Porte, shall pay the same duties and other imposts, that are paid by merchants of the most favored friendly Powers, and they shall not, in any way, be vexed or molested. On both sides, travelling passports shall be granted.

Consuls.

ARTICLE II. The Sublime Porte may establish Shahbenders ( Consuls) in the United States of America ; and the United States may appoint
their citizens to be Consuls or Vice Consuls, at the commercial places in the dominions of the Sublime Porte, where it shall be found needful to superintend the affairs of commerce. These Consuls or Vice Con-
suls shall be furnished with Berats or Firmans ; they shall enjoy suitable distinction, and shall have necessary aid and protection.

Employment brokers.

ARTICLE III. American merchants established in the well defended States of the Sublime Porte, for purposes of commerce, shall have liberty to employ Semsars (brokers) of any nation or religion , in like manner as merchants of other friendly Powers ; and they shall not be disturbed in their affairs, nor shall they be treated , in any way , contrary

Visit of Ame rican vessels.

to established usages. American vessels arriving at, or departing from ,
the ports of the Ottoman Empire, shall not be subjected to greater visit, by the officers of the custom-house and the Chancery of the Port, than vessels of the most favored nations.

(a) Translation from the original Turkish of the treaty concluded between the United States and the Ottoman Porte.
(408)

TREATY WITH THE OTTOMAN PORTE. 1830.

409

ARTICLE IV. If litigations and disputes should arise between the Settlement of

subjects of the Sublime Porte and citizens of the United States, the tdiwsepeunteOstbteo-man parties shall not be heard , nor shall judgment be pronounced unless the subjects, & c.

American Dragoman be present. Causes in which the sum may exceed

five hundred piastres, shall be submitted to the Sublime Porte, to be

decided according to the laws of equity and justice. Citizens of the United States of America, quietly pursuing their commerce, and not being charged or convicted of any crime or offence, shall not be molested ; and even when they may have committed some offence they shall

Jurisdiction over American citizens.

not be arrested and put in prison, by the local authorities, but they shall

be tried by their Minister or Consul, and punished according to their

offence, following, in this respect, the usage observed towards other Franks.

ARTICLE V. American merchant vessels that trade to the dominions U. S. flag to

of the Sublime Porte, may go and come in perfect safety with their own bnoetrteospbeectlednt; flag ; but they shall not take the flag of any other Power, nor shall they to others, &c. grant their flag to the vessels of other nations and Powers, nor to vessels of rayahs. The Minister, Consuls, and Vice Consuls of the United

States, shall not protect, secretly or publicly, the rayahs of the Sublime Porte, and they shall never suffer a departure from the principles here laid down and agreed to by mutual consent.

ARTICLE VI. Vessels of war of the two contracting Parties, shall Vessels of war
observe towards each other, demonstrations of friendship and good in- swhaarlldsexehaicbhit totelligence, according to naval usage ; and towards merchant vessels they other, & c. shall exhibit the same kind and courteous manner.

ARTICLE VII. Merchant vessels of the United States, in like manner as vessels of the most favored nations, shall have liberty to pass the Canal of the Imperial Residence, and go and come in the Black Sea, either laden or in ballast ; and they may be laden with the produce, manufactures and effects, of the Ottoman Empire, excepting such as are prohibited, as well as of their own country.

Passage of the Dardanelles.

ARTICLE VIII. Merchant vessels of the two contracting parties shall not be forcibly taken , for the shipment of troops, munitions and other objects of war, if the Captains or proprietors of the vessels, shall be unwilling to freight them.

Ships not to be impressed.

ARTICLE IX. If any merchant vessel of either of the contracting parties, should be wrecked, assistance and protection shall be afforded to those of the crew that may be saved ; and the merchandise and effects, which it may be possible to save and recover, shall be conveyed to the Consul, nearest to the place of the wreck , to be, by him, delivered to the proprietors.
CONCLUSION.

Wrecks

The foregoing articles, agreed upon and concluded, between the Riasset (Chancery of State,) and the above mentioned Commissioner of the United States, when signed by the other two Commissioners, shall be exchanged. In ten months from the date of this Temessuck, or instrument of treaty, the exchange of the ratifications of the two Powers shall be made, and the articles of this treaty shall have full force and be strictly observed by the two Contracting Powers.

Exchange of ratifications.

Given the fourteenth day of the moon Zilcaade, and in the year of

the Hegira, 1245, corresponding with the seventh day of May, of

the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty of the Christian Æra.

(Signed)

MOHAMMED HAMED,

VOL. VIII. 52

Reis-ul-Kutab (Reis Effendi). 2K

April 5, 182. A TREATY OF AMITY , COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION

Ratifications
exchanged , April 5, 1832. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., April 5 , 1832.

Between the United States of America and the United Mexican States.
THE United States of America and the United Mexican States

desiring to establish upon a firm basis the relations of friendship that so happily subsist between the two Republics, have determined to fix in

a clear and positive manner the rules which shall in future be religiously observed between both, by means of a treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation. For which important object, the President of the United

States of America has appointed Anthony Butler, a citizen of the United States, and Chargé d'Affaires of the United States of America near the United Mexican States, with full powers ; and the Vice-President of the United Mexican States, in the exercise of the Executive power, having conferred like full powers on his Excellency Lucas Alaman, Secretary of State for Home and Foreign Affairs, and his Excellency Raphael Mangino, Secretary of the Treasury ; and the aforesaid Plenipotentiaries, after having compared and exchanged in due form their several powers as aforesaid, have agreed upon the following articles :

Peace and friendship.

ARTICLE I. There shall be a firm, inviolable, and universal peace, and a true and sincere friendship between the United States of America and the United Mexican States in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between their people and citizens respectively, without distinction of persons or places.

Footing of most favored nations secured to the parties.

ARTICLE II. The United States of America and the United Mexican
States, designing to take for the basis of their agreement the most perfect equality and reciprocity, engage mutually not to grant any particular favor to other nations in respect of commerce and navigation, which shall not immediately become common to the other party ; who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or upon the same conditions, if the concession was conditional.

Entry into ports.

ARTICLE III. The citizens of the two countries respectively shall have liberty, freely and securely to come with their vessels and cargoes to all such places, ports, and rivers of the United States of America and of the United Mexican States, to which other foreigners are permitted to come ; to enter into the same, and to remain and reside in any part of the said territories respectively ; also, to hire and occupy houses and warehouses for the purposes of their commerce, and to trade therein, in all sorts of produce, manufactures, and merchandize ; and, generally, the merchants and traders of each nation shall enjoy the most complete protection and security for their commerce.
And they shall not pay higher or other duties, imposts, or fees whatsoever, than those which the most favored nations are or may be obliged to pay ; and shall enjoy all the rights, privileges, and exemptions, with respect to navigation and commerce, which the citizens of the most favored nation do or may enjoy ; but subject always to the laws, usages, and statutes of the two countries respectively.

(410)

TRATADO DE AMISTAD, COMERCIO, Y NAVEGACION
Entre los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos
Mexicanos.
Los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos deseosos de afirmar sobre bases solidas las relaciones de amistad y comercio que felizmente ecsisten entre ambas Repúblicas, han resuelto fijar de una manera clara y positiva las reglas que han de observarse en lo succesivo religiosamente entre ambas, por medio de un tratado de Amistad, Comercio, y Navegacion. Para cuyo importante objeto, el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America há conferido plenos poderes al ciudadano de los mismos Estados Antonio Butler, Encargado de Negocios cerca de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos ; y el Vice-Presidente de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos en ejercicio del poder Ejecutivo al Ecselentisimo Señor Don Lucas Alaman, Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Relaciones Esteriores é Interiores, y al ecselentisimo Señor Don Rafael Mangino, Secretario de Estado y del Despacho de Hacienda ; los cuales, despues de haber cambiado sus plenos poderes , han convenido en los articulos siguientes :
ARTICULO I. Habrá una firme, inviolable y universal paz , y una sincera y verdadera amistad entre los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos en toda la estension de sus posesiones y territorios, y entre sus pueblos y ciudadanos, respectivamente, sin distincion de personas ó lugares.
ARTICULO II. Los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, deseando tomár por base de este convenio la mas perfecta igualdad y reciprocidad, se comprometen mutuamente á no conceder ningun favor particular á otras naciones, en lo respectivo á comercio y navegacion, que no venga á ser inmediatamente comun á la otra parte; la cual deberá gozarlo libremente, si la concecion fué hacha libremente ó bajo las mismas condiciones, si la concesion fuese condicional.
ARTICULO III Los ciudadanos de los dos paises respectivamente, tendrán libertad, franquicia y seguridad para ir con sus buques y cargamentos á todas las plazas, puertos, y rios de los Estados Unidos de America y de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, á los que á otros estrangeros es permitido ir, entrar y permanecer en cualquiera parte de los dichos territorios respectivamente ; asi como arrendar y ocupar casas y almacenes para los fines de su comercio, y comerciar en ellos en toda clase de productos , manufacturas y mercancias ; y en general, los comerciantes y negociantes de cada nacion, gozarán la mas completa proteccion y seguridad para su comercio.
Y no pagarán otros ni mas altos derechos impuestos ó emolumentos, cualquiera que sean, que los que esten ó estuvieren obligadas á pagar las naciones mas favorecidas ; y gozarán todos los derechos, privilegios, y ecsenciones, con respecto á la navegacion y comercio, que los ciudadanos de la nacion mas favorecida gozen ó gozaren ; pero sugetos siempre á las leyes, usos y estatutos de las dos naciones respectivamente .
(411)

412

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

Coasting trade The liberty to enter and discharge the vessels of both nations of

excepted.

which this article treats, shall not be understood to authorize the coast-

ing trade, which is permitted to National vessels only.

Duties on pro- ARTICLE IV. No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the im-

dpuarcttiieosn.s of the portation into the United Mexican States of any article, the produce, growth, or manufacture of the United States of America, than those
which the same or like articles, the produce, growth, or manufacture

of any other foreign country do now or may hereafter pay ; nor shall articles, the produce, growth, or manufacture of the United Mexican States, be subject on their introduction into the United States of Ame-

rica, to higher or other duties than those which the same or like articles

of any other foreign country do now or may hereafter pay.

Export duties and prohibitions .

Higher duties shall not be imposed in the respective States on the exportation of any article to the States of the other contracting Party, than those which are now or may hereafter be paid on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country ; nor shall any prohibition be established on the exportation or importation of any article, the produce, growth, or manufacture of the United States of America, or of the United Mexican States respectively, in either of them, which shall not in like manner be established with respect to other foreign countries.

Tonnage du ties, & c. the
sofaemiethienr vpeasrsteyl. s

ARTICLE V. No higher or other duties or charges on account of tonnage, light or harbor dues, pilotage, salvage in case of damage or shipwreck, or any other local charges, shall be imposed, in any of the ports of Mexico on vessels of the United States of America, than those paya-

ble in the same ports by Mexican vessels ; nor in the ports of the United States of America, on Mexican vessels, than shall be payable in the same ports on vessels ofthe United States of America.

Import duties.

ARTICLE VI. The same duties shall be paid on the importation int the United Mexican States, of any article, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United States of America, whether such importation shall be in Mexican vessels or in vessels of the United States of Ame

rica ; and the same duties shall be paid on the importation into the United States of America, of any article, the growth, produce, or manu-

Export duties, bounties, and drawbacks.

facture of Mexico, whether such importation shall be in vessels of the United States of America or in Mexican vessels. The same duties shall be paid, and the same bounties and drawbacks allowed, on the exportation to Mexico of any articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United States of America, whether such exportation shall be in

Mexican vessels or in vessels of the United States of America ; and the

same duties shall be paid, and the same bounties and drawbacks allow-

ed, on the exportation of any articles, the growth, produce, or manufacture of Mexico, to the United States of America, whether such exportation shall be in vessels of the United States of America or in Mexican

vessels.

Merchants, &c. put on the
same footingin the ports of either party.

ARTICLE VII. All merchants, captains, or commanders of vessels, and other citizens of the United States of America, shall have full liberty in the United Mexican States to direct or manage themselves, their own affairs, or to commit them to the management of whomsoever they may think proper, either as broker, factor, agent, or interpreter ; nor shall they be obliged to employ for the aforesaid purposes any other persons than those employed by Mexicans, nor to pay them higher salaries or remuneration than such as are in like cases paid by Mexicans : and

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

413

La libertad de entrar y descargar los buques de ambas naciones de que habla este articulo, no se entenderá que autoriza el comercio de escala y cabotaje permitido solamente á los buques Nacionales.
ARTICULO IV. No se impondrán otros ni mayores derechos á la importacion en los Estados Unidos de America de articulo alguno de producto natural, ó manufactura, de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, que los que pagan, ó en adelante pagaren, los mismos ó semejantes articulos de producto natural ó manufactura de cualquiera otro pais estrangero. Los articulos de producto natural ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos de America, no estarán sugetos en su introduccion en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, á otros ni mas altos derechos que aquellos que los mismos ó semejantes articulos de cualquiera otro pais estrangero paguen ahora ó puedan pagar en adelante.
No se impondrán mayores derechos en los Estados respectivos, á la esportacion de articulo alguno á los Estados de la otra Parte contratante que los que ahora ó despues sean pagados en la esportacion de los mismos articulos á algun otro pais estrangero ; ni ninguna prohibicion será establecida en la esportacion ó importacion de cualquier articulo, producto natural ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos de America ó los Estados Unidos Mexicanos respectivamente, en alguno de ellos, que del mismo modo no se establesca igualmente con respecto á otros paises estrangeros.
ARTICULO V. No se impondrán otros ni mas altos derechos ni cargas, por razon de toneladas, fanal, emolumentos de puerto, practico, derechos de salvamento en caso de perdida ó naufragio, ni ningunas otras cargas locales, en ninguno de los puertos de los Estados Unidos de America, á los buques de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos , sino los que unicamente pagan en los mismos puertos los buques de los Estados Unidos de America ; ni en los puertos de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos se impondrán á los buques de los Estados Unidos de America otras cargas que las que en los mismos puertos paguen los buques Mexicanos,
ARTICULO VI. Se pagarán los mismos derechos de importacion en los Estados Unidos de America, por los articulos de productos naturales y manufacturas de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, bien sean importados en buques de los Estados Unidos de America ó en buques Mexicanos ; y los mismos derechos se pagarán por la importacion en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos de cualquiera articulo de producto natural ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos de America, sea que su importacion se verifique en buques Mexicanos ó de los Estados Unidos de America. Los mismos derechos pagarán, y gozarán las mismas franquicias y descuentos concedidos á la esportacion á Mexico de cualquiera articulos de los productos naturales ó manufacturas de los Estados Unidos de America, sea que la exportacion se haga en buques Mexicanos ó en buques de los Estados Unidos de America, y los mismos derechos se pagarán ye se concederán las mismas franquicias y descuentos á la esportación de cualquiera articulos de producto natural ó manufactura de Mexico á los Estados Unidos de America, sea que la esportacion se
haga en buques de los Estados Unidos de America ó en buques Mexicanos.
ARTICULO VII. Todo comerciante, comandante de buque, y otros ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America gozarán de libertad completa en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos para dirijir ó girar por si sus propios negocios ó para encargar su manejo aquien mejor les parezca, sea corredor, factor, agente ó interprete ; y no se les obligará á emplear para estos objetos á ningunas otras personas que aquellas que se emplean por los Mejicanos, ni estarán obligados á pagarles mas salario ó remuneracion que la que en semejantes casos pagan los Mejicanos, y se concederá libertad
2K 2

414

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831 .

absolute freedom shall be allowed in all cases to the buyer and seller to
bargain and fix the prices of any goods, wares, or merchandise imported into, or exported from, the United Mexican States, as they may think proper ; observing the laws, usages, and customs of the country. The citizens of Mexico shall enjoy the same privileges in the States and Territories of the United States of America, being subject to the same conditions.

Embargo, detention ; com .
pensation for.

ARTICLE VIII. The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to any embargo, nor shall their vessels, cargoes , merchandise, or effects, be detained for any military expedition , nor for any public or private purpose whatsoever, without a corresponding compensation.

Citizens exempted from service, & c.

ARTICLE IX . The citizens of both countries, respectively, shall be exempt from compulsory service in the army or navy ; nor shall they be subjected to any other charges, or contributions, or taxes, than such as are paid by the citizens of the States in which they reside.

Citizens seek-
ing refuge in the harbors, & c.

ARTICLE X. Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports, or dominions of the other with their vessels, whether merchant or of war, public or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, with the precautions which may be deemed expedient on the part of the respective Governments in order to avoid fraud, giving to them all favor and protection for repairing their vessels, procuring provisions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.

Delivery of vessels, & c. captured by pirates.

ARTICLE XI . All vessels, merchandise, or effects, belonging to the citizens of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates, whether within the limits of its jurisdiction , or on the high seas, and may be carried into or found in the rivers, bays, ports, or dominions of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they
proving, in due and proper form, their rights before the competent tribunal ; it being well understood that the claim shall be made within one year, counting from the capture of said vessels or merchandise, by the parties themselves, or their attorneys, or by the agents of the respective Governments.

Shipwrecks , & c.

ARTICLE XII . When any vessel belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, shall be wrecked, foundered, or shall suffer any damage on the coasts or within the dominions of the other, there
shall be given to it all the assistance and protection in the same manner which is usual and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens ; permitting them to unload the said vessel , if necessary, of its merchandise effects, with the precautions which may be deemed expedient on the part of the respective Governments, in order to avoid fraud, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or contribution whatever, untill they be exported .

Succession to
personal estate, and disposal thereof.

ARTICLE XIII. In whatever relates to the succession of [ personal] estates, either by will or ab intestato [ and the right of ] disposal of such property, of whatever sort or denomination it may be, by sale, donation , exchange, or testament, or in any other manner whatsoever, the citizens of the two contracting parties shall enjoy, in their respective States and Territories, the same privileges, exemptions, liberties, and rights, as native citizens ; and shall not be charged, in any of these respects, with other or higher duties or imposts, than those which are now, or may

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

415

absoluta en todos los casos al comprador ó vendedor para ajustar y fijar el precio de cualesquiera efectos, articulos ó mercancias importadas ó esportadas de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, como lo crean conveniente ; observando las leyes, usos y costumbres establecidas en el pais. Los ciudadanos de Mexico gozarán los mismos privilegios en los Estados y Territorios de los Estados Unidos de America, quedando sugetos á las mismas condiciones.
ARTICULO VIII . Los ciudadanos de las partes contratantes no estarán sugetos á embargo, ni sus buques, cargamentos, mercancias ó efectos serán detenidos para ninguna espedicion militar, ni para ningun otro objeto público ó privado, cualquiera que sea, sin una compensacion correspondiente.
ARTICULO IX . Los ciudadanos de ambos paises respectivamente, estarán ecsentos de todo servicio militar forzoso en el ejercito ó armada ; ni estarán sugetos á ningunas otras cargas, contribuciones ó impuestos, que aquellas que son pagadas por los ciudadanos de los Estados en que residen.
ARTICULO X. Siempre que los ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes se vean precisados à buscar refugio ó asilo en los rios, bahias, puertos ó dominios de la otra con sus buques, ya sean mercantes, ó de guerra, ó armados en corso, á causa de un temporal persecucion de piratas ó enemigos, serán recibidos y tratados con humanidad, previas las precauciones que se juzgen convenientes por parte del respectivo Gobierno para evitar el fraude, concediendoles todo favor y proteccion para reparar sus buques, procurar provisiones y ponerse en estado de continuar su viaje, sin obstaculo ó impedimento de ninguna clase.

ARTICULO XI. Todo buque, mercancia y efectos, pertenecientes á ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, que sean apresados por piratas, ya sea dentro de los limites de su jurisdiccion ó en alta mar, y que fueren conducidos ó encontrados en los rios , bahias, puertos ó dominios de la otra , serán entregados á sus dueños , provando estos en debida forma sus derechos ante el tribunal competente ; bien entendido que el reclamo deberá hacerse dentro del termino de un año contado desde la
captura de dichos buques ó mercancias, por los mismos interesados, sus apoderados ó por los agentes de sus Gobiernos respectivos.

ARTICULO XII. Cuando algun buque perteneciente á ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, naufrague, vaya á pique, ó sufra cualquiera averia, en las costas ó dentro de los dominios de la otra, se le dispensará toda la asistencia y proteccion , del mismo modo que es de uso y costumbre con los buques de la nacion en que acontece el daño ; permitiendoles descargar las mercancias y efectos del mismo buque si fuere necesario con las precauciones que se estimen convenientes por parte de los Gobiernos respectivos, para evitar el fraude , sin ecsigir por ello ningun impuesto ó contribucion cualquiera que sean, hasta que sean
esportadas.
ARTICULO XIII . Por lo que toca á la sucesion de las propiedades personales por testamento ó ab-intestato, y al derecho de disponer de la propiedad personal de cualquiera clase ó denominacion , por venta , donacion, permuta ó testamento, ó de otro modo cualquiera los ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes gozarán en sus respectivos Estados y Territorios los mismos privilegios, ecsenciones, libertades y derechos que si fueran ciudadanos nativos ; y no se les cargará en ninguno de estos puntos ó casos, mayores impuestos ó derechos que los que pagan ó en

416

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

hereafter be paid by the citizens of the Power in whose territories they may reside.

Persons and
property tobe protected.

ARTICLE XIV. Both the contracting parties promise and engage to
give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of each other, of all occupations, who may be in their territories, subject to the jurisdiction of the one or of the other, transient or dwelling therein ; leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice for their judicial recourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which they may employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at law; and the citizens of either party, or their agents, shall enjoy, in every respect, the same rights and privileges, either in prosecuting or defending their rights of person or of property, as the citizens of the country where the cause may be tried.

Security as to
religion in Mexico.

ARTICLE XV. The citizens of the United States of America, residing
in the United Mexican States, shall enjoy in their houses, persons, and properties, the protection of the Government, with the most perfect security and liberty of conscience : they shall not be disturbed or mo-

lested, in any manner, on account of their religion, so long as they respect the Constitution , the laws, and established usages of the country

where they reside ; and they shall also enjoy the privilege of burying the dead in places which now are, or may hereafter be assigned for that purpose ; nor shall the funerals or sepulchres of the dead be disturbed

in any manner, nor under any pretext.

In the United States.

The citizens of the United Mexican States shall enjoy, throughout all the States and Territories of the United States of America , the same protection ; and shall be allowed the free exercise of their religion, in public or in private, either within their own houses, or in the chapels or places of worship set apart for that purpose.

Security to vessels sailing to and from an
enemy's port.

ARTICLE XVI. It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America, and of the United Mexican States respectively, to sail with their vessels with all manner of security and liberty, no distinction being made who are the owners of the merchandise laden thereon, from

any port to the places of those who now are, or may hereafter be at

enmity with the United States of America, or with the United Mexican States. It shall likewise be lawful for the aforesaid citizens respectively

to sail with their vessels and merchandise, before mentioned, and to

trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports, and havens of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any

opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places

of the enemy, before mentioned, to neutral places, but also from one

place belonging to an enemy to another place belonging to an enemy,

whether they be under the jurisdiction of the same Government or under

Free ship, free several ; and it is hereby stipulated that free ships shall also give freedom

goods .

to goods ; and that every thing shall be deemed free and exempt which

shall be found on board the vessels belonging to the citizens of either

of the contracting parties, although the whole lading or any part thereof

should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being

Free ship , free always excepted. It is also agreed that the same liberty be extended to

persons.

persons who are on board a free vessel, so that , although they be enemies

to either party, they shall not be made prisoners, or taken out of that

free vessel, unless they are soldiers , and in the actual service of the

Limitation of enemy. By the stipulation that the flag shall cover the property, the the principle. two contracting parties agree that this shall be so understood with re-

spect to those powers who recognise this principle ; but if either of the

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1831.

417

adelante pagaren los ciudadanos nativos de la Potencia en cuyo territorio residan.
ARTICULO XIV. Ambas partes contratantes prometen y formalmente se obligan á conceder su especial proteccion á las personas y propiedades de los ciudadanos de cada una de ellas, en todas clases que puedan ecsistir en sus territorios sugetos á la jurisdiccion de la una ó de la otra, transeuntes ó radicados en ellos ; dejandoles abiertos y libres los tribunales de justicia para sus recursos judiciales, de la misma manera que es uso y costumbre con los nacionales ó ciudadanos del pais en que residan ; á cuyo efecto podrán emplear en defensa de sus derechos, los abogados, procuradores, escrivanos, agentes y factores que juzgen á proposito en todos sus juicios : y dichos ciudadanos ó sus agentes gozarán en todo, los mismos derechos y privilegios en la prosecucion ó defensa de sus personas ó propiedades que disfrutan los ciudadanos del pais en donde la causa sea seguida.
ARTICULO XV. Los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America residentes en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, gozarán en sus casas, personas y propiedades, de la proteccion del Gobierno y continuando en la posesion en que están ; no serán alterados , inquietados ni molestados , de ninguna manera por motivos de su religion , con tal que respeten la de la nacion en que residan , y la Constitucion , leyes, usos y costumbres de esta ; asi mismo continuarán en la facultad de que gozan para enterrar en los lugares señalados ó que en adelante se señalaren á este objeto, á los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America que mueran en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos ; y los funerales y sepulcros de los muertos no serán turbados de modo alguno , ni por ningun pretesto.
Los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos gozarán en todos los Estados y Territorios de los Estados Unidos de America, de la misma proteccion ; y podrán ejercer libremente su religion en público ó en privado dentro de sus casas ó en los templos y lugares destinados al culto.
ARTICULO XVI. Será permitido á todos y cada uno de los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America, y de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos poder navegar libre y seguramente con sus embarcaciones sin que haya la menor escepcion por este respecto aunque los propietarios de las mercaderias cargadas en dichas embarcaciones procedan de cualquiera puerto, y sean destinadas á cualquiera plaza de una potencia enemiga, ó que lo sea despues, asi de los Estados Unidos de America, como de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos. Se permitirá igualmente á los ciuda danos respectivamente navegar con sus buques y mercaderias y frecuentar con igual libertad y seguridad las plazas y puertos en las potencias enemigas de las partes contratantes, ó de una de ellas, sin oposicion ú obstaculo, y de comerciar no solo desde los puertos de dicho enemigo, á un puerto neutro directamente, sino tambien desde un enemigo á otro tal, bien se encuentre bajo su jurisdiccion, ó bajo las de muchos ; y se estipula tambien que los buques libres asegurarán igualmente la libertad de las mercancias ; y que se juzgarán libres todos los efectos que se hallasen á bordo de los buques que perteneciesen á ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, aun cuando el cargamento por entero, ó parte de él fuese de los enemigos de una de las dos , bien entendido sin embargo que el contrabando se esceptua siempre. Se há convenido asi mismo que la propia libertad gozarán los sugetos que puedan encontrarse á bordo del buque libre , aun cuando fuesen enemigos de una de las dos partes contratantes ; y por lo tanto no se podrá hacerlos prisioneros ni separarlos de dichos buques , á menos que sean militares, y estén á la sazon empleados en el servicio del enemigo. Por la estipulacion de que la bandera cubre la propiedad , han convenido las dos partes con
VOI. VIII. 53

418

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

two contracting parties shall be at war with a third party, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover the property of enemies whose Governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

Where neutral
flag protects enemy's property, & c.

ARTICLE XVII . It is likewise agreed that in the case where the neutral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the other , by virtue of the above stipulation, it shall always be understood that the neutral property found on board such

enemies' vessels shall be held and considered as enemies' property, and as such shall be liable to detention and confiscation , except such pro-

perty as was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war, or even afterwards if it were done without the knowledge of it : but the

contracting parties agree that four months having elapsed after the declaration, their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof; on the con-

trary, if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property,

in that case the goods and merchandises embarked in such enemy's vessel shall be free.

Contraband
goods excepted and defined.

ARTICLE XVIII . This liberty of commerce and navigation shall extend to all kinds of merchandise, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband ; and under this name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended, first , cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets, fusees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberts ; and granades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms : secondly, bucklers , helmets, breast-plates, coats of mail, infantry belts, and clothes made up in a military form , and for a military use ; thirdly, cavalry belts and horses with their furniture ; fourthly, and generally, all kinds of arms, and instruments of iron , steel, brass and copper or of any other materials manufactured, prepared and formed expressly to make war by sea or land.

Blockade , what.

ARTICLE XIX. All other merchandise and things not comprehended
in the articles of contraband expressly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free and subjects of free and lawful commerce, so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are at that time besieged or blockaded ; and to avoid all doubt in that particular, it is declared that those places only are besieged or blockaded, which are actually besieged or blockaded by a belligerent force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral.

Contraband liable to confis cation.
Vessel not to be detained, unless, & c.

ARTICLE XX. The articles of contraband before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation , leaving free the rest of the cargo and the vessel, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessels of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high seas on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever the master, captain or supercargo of said vessel will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor, unless the quantity of such articles be so great and of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on board the capturing vessel without great inconvenience ; but in this, and in all other cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest convenient and safe port for trial and judgment, according to law.

Notice of blockade .

ARTICLE XXI. And, whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy without knowing that the

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1831 .

419

ratantes en que esto se entiende asi respecto de aquellas potencias que reconozcan este principio ; pero que si una de las dos partes contratantes estubiese en guerra con una tercera, y la otra neutral, la bandera de esta neutral cubrirà la propiedad de los enemigos cuyo Gobierno reconozca este principio, y no de otros.
ARTICULO XVII. Se conviene tambien que en caso de que el pavellon neutral de una de las partes contratantes proteja la propiedad de los enemigos de la otra en virtud de la referida estipulacion , se entenderá siempre que la propiedad neutral encontrada á bordo de los referidos buques enemigos se tendrá y considerará como propiedad enemiga, y como tal estará sugeta á detencion y confiscacion, escepto aquella propiedad que haya sido embarcada en tal buque antes de declaracion de guerra, y aun despues si se há hecho sin noticia de tal declaracion ; pero las partes contratantes convienen en que cuatro meses despues de la declaracion , sus ciudadanos no alegarán ignorancia ; al contrario, si el pavellon del buque neutral no proteje la propiedad enemiga, en este caso los efectos y mercancias del neutral embarcados en tal buque enemigo serán libres.
ARTICULO XVIII. Esta libertad de navegacion y comercio será estensiva á todo genero de mercancias esceptuando solamente las que se distinguen con el nombre de contrabando ; y bajo esta calificacion ó la de efectos prohibidos se comprenderán, primero, cañones, morteros, obuses, pedreros, trabucos, fusiles, escopetas, carabinas, comunes y rayadas, pistolas, picas, espadas, sables, lanzas, arpones, alabardas y granadas, bombas, polvora, mechas, balas y otras cosas que pertenecen á el uso de armas : segundo, escudos, yelmos, petos, cotas de maya, cinturones de infanteria, y uniformes ó vestidos propios para la tropa ; tercero, cinturones de caballeria y caballos con sus arneces ; cuarto, y generalmente toda clase de armas é instrumentos en hierro, acero, bronce y cobre ú otros materiales manufacturados, preparados y formados a proposito para hacer la guerra por mar ó por tierra.
ARTICULO XIX . Cualesquiera otras mercancias y cosas no comprendidas en los articulos en contrabando enumerados y clasificados esplicitamente como queda dicho, se tendrán y considerarán libres, y de libre y legal comercio, de modo que podrán llevarse y transportarse de la manera mas libre por ambas partes contratantes aun á parages pertenecientes á enemigos, esceptuando solo aquellos que á la sazon estubiesen sitiados ó bloqueados ; y para evitar toda duda en este particular, se declara que solo se considerarán bloqueados ó sitiados aquellos puntos que se hallen sitiados ó bloqueados por una fuerza beligerante capaz de impedir la entrada á los neutrales.
ARTICULO XX . Los articulos de contrabando enumerados y clasificados arriba que se encuentren en un buque que navega para puerto enemigo, estarán sugetos á detencion y confiscacion, dejando libre el resto del cargamento y el buque para que los dueños dispongan lo que les paresca. Ningun buque de ambas naciones será detenido en alta
mar por conducir á bordo articulos de contrabando, siempre que el dueño, capitan ó sobrecargo del referido buque los entregue al apresador, á menos que la cantidad de estos articulos sea tan grande y abulte tanto que no pueda recibirlos el buque apresador sin grande inconveniente ; pero en este y en todos los demas casos de justa detencion , el buque de tenido se enviará al puerto mas cercano conveniente y seguro para ser juzgado con arreglo á las leyes.

ARTICULO XXI . Como sucede muy frecuentemente que los buques salen para un puerto ó plaza perteneciente al enemigo sin saber que se

420

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

Free egress
allowed in certain cases.

same is besieged, blockaded , or invested, it is agreed that every vessel so situated may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained ; nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after warning of such blockade or investment from the commanding officer of the blockading force, she should again attempt to enter the aforesaid port ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she may think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either of the contracting parties, that may have entered into such port before the same was actually besieged, blockaded, or invested by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo ; nor if found therein after the surrender, shall such vessel or her cargo be liable to confiscation, but she shall be restored to the owner thereof.

Examination of vessels at sea.

ARTICLE XXII. In order to prevent all kinds of disorder in the visiting and examination of the vessels and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high seas, they have agreed, mutually, that, whenever a vessel of war, public or private, should meet with a neutral vessel ofthe other contracting party, the first shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send his boat, with two or three men only, in order to execute the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion, violence, or ill treatment, for which the commanders of the said armed vessels shall be responsible with their persons and property ; and for this purpose the commanders of said private armed vessels shall, before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit. And it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall in no case, be required to go on board the examining vessel for the purpose of exhibiting his papers, or for any other purpose whatsoever.

One of the parties being

ARTICLE XXIII. To avoid all kinds of vexation and abuse in the examination of papers relating to the ownership of vessels belonging to

veensgsaeglesdoifntwhaer, the citizens of the two contracting parties, they have agreed, and do other to be pro- agree, that in case one of them should be engaged in war, the vessels

vided with sea belonging to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea-letters

letters, & c.

or passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the vessel, and

also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of

said vessel, in order that it may thereby appear that the said vessel really

and truly belongs to the citizens of one of the contracting parties ; they

have likewise agreed that such vessels being laden , besides the said sea-

letters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates, containing

the several particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the vessel

sailed, so that it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband

goods be on board the same ; which certificate shall be made out by the

It not so provided, to be adjudged lawful prize.

officers of the place whence the vessel sailed, in the accustomed form : without which requisites, the said vessel may be detained , to be adjudged by the competent tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent to the satisfaction of the competent tribunal.

Vessels under tonvoy.

ARTICLE XXIV . It is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed, relative to visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which sail without convoy ; and when said vessels are under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, or his word of honor that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries, and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

Prize courts.

ARTICLE XXV. It is further agreed , that in all cases the established courts for prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831 .

421

halla sitiado, bloqueado ó atacado, se conviene en que á ningun buque que se halle en estas circunstancias se le permitirá entrar en el ; pero no será detenido, ni será confiscada parte alguna de su cargamento, sino hubiere en el alguno de los efectos de contrabando ; á menos que despues de ser prevenido del sitio ó bloqueo por el oficial comandante de las fuerzas bloqueadoras emprendiese de nuevo entrar en dicho puerto ; pero se permitirá ir á cualquiera otro puerto ó lugar que crea conveniente. Ni á buque alguno de las partes contratantes que hubiere entrado en tal puerto antes de ser bloqueado, sitiado ó atacado por alguna de ellas, se le impedirá salir del puerto con su cargamento, y si se hallare en el despues de la rendicion, ni el buque ni el cargamento serán confiscados sino debueltos á sus dueños.
ARTICULO XXII. Para impedir toda clase de desorden en la visita y ecsamen de los buques y cargamentos de ambas partes contratantes en alta mar, convienen mutuamente en que siempre que un buque de guerra
nacional, ó armado en corso se encontrare con un buque neutral de la otra parte contratante, el primero se mantendrá fuera del tiro de cañon, y enviará su vote con solo dos ó tres hombres para verificar el referido ecsamen de los papeles relativos al dueño y cargamento del buque, sin causar la menor violencia, vejacion ó maltrato : para lo que los comandantes de los espresados buques armados, serán responsables con sus personas y propiedades, á cuyo fin los comandantes de dichos buques armados en corso por cuenta de particulares, darán antes de recibir sus patentes, fianzas suficientes para responder de los daños que puedan causar. Y se estipula espresamente que á buque neutral en ningun caso se le obligará ir á bordo del que registra á manifestar sus papeles, ni algun otro objeto sea el que fuere.
ARTICULO XXIII. Para evitar toda vejacion y abuso en el ecsamen de los papeles relativamente á los dueños de los buques que pertenescan á ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes, han convenido y convienen que en caso de hallarse una de ellas en guerra, los buques y navios que pertenescan á ciudadanos de la otra, deberán ser provistos con patentes de mar ó pasaportes, que espresen el nombre, propiedad y dimensiones del buque, asi como el nombre del lugar en que habite el capitan ó comandante del buque para que aparesca real y verdaderamente que pertenece á ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes ; y han convenido igualmente en que los referidos buques si condujesen cargamento ademas de las patentes de mar ó pasaportes , seran provistos de certificaciones con espresion de cada uno de los articulos que comprende el cargamento y el lugar de su procedencia, para saber si á su bordo se hallan efectos de contrabando ; cuya certificacion se dará por les autoridades del lugar de donde salió el buque en la forma acostumbrada : sin cuyo requisito el referido buque podrá ser detenido para ser juzgado por tribunal competente, y podrá ser declarado buena presa, á menos que esta falta se satisfaga ó supla con testimonio equivalente á satisfaccion del tribunal competente.
ARTICULO XXIV . Convienen ademas en que las estipulaciones arriba
espresadas relativamente al ecsamen y visitas de buques tendrán lugar solamente respecto de aquellos que navegan sin convoy y que cuando los dichos buques estubieren bajo convoy será bastante la declaracion verbal del comandante del convoy bajo su palabra de honor de que los buques que están bajo su proteccion pertenecen á la nacion del pavellon que enarbola, y cuando van con destino á puerto enemigo, de que no llevan contrabando á bordo.
ARTICULO XXV. Se convienen ademas que en todos los casos los tribunales establecidos para juzgar presas en el pais adonde estas sean conducidas tendrán ellos solos el conocimiento de estas causas y cuando
2L

422

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

tribunal of either party shall pronounce judgment against any vessel , or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reason or motives on which the same shall have been founded ; and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, in conformity with the laws and usages of the country, and of all the proceedings of the case, shall , if demanded , be delivered to the commander or agent of said vessel, without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

In the event

ARTICLE XXVI. For the greater security of the intercourse between

of war between the citizens of the United States of America and of the United Mexican
the parties. States, it is agreed now for then , that if there should be at any time

hereafter an interruption of the friendly relations which now exist, or a

war unhappily break out between the two contracting parties, there shall

be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coast, and one year to those residing in the interior of the States and

Territories of each other respectively, to arrange their business, dispose

of their effects, or transport them wheresoever they may please, giving

them a safe conduct to protect them to the port they may designate.

Those citizens who may be established in the States and Territories

aforesaid, exercising any other occupation or trade, shall be permitted

to remain in the uninterrupted enjoyment of their liberty and property,

so long as they conduct themselves peaceably, and do not commit any

offence against the laws ; and their goods and effects, of whatever class

and condition they may be, shall not be subject to any embargo or

sequestration whatever, nor to any charge nor tax other than may be established upon similar goods and effects belonging to the citizens of

the State in which they reside respectively ; nor shall the debts between individuals, nor moneys in the public funds, or in public or private banks, nor shares in companies, be confiscated, embargoed , or detained.

Ministers and
tphuebilricimamguenntisties, & c.

ARTICLE XXVII. Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have agreed and do agree to grant to the envoys, ministers, and other public agents, the same favors, immunities, and exemptions which those of the most favored nation do or may enjoy : it being understood that whatever favors, immunities, or privileges the United States of America or the United Mexican States may find proper
to give to the ministers and public agents of any other power, shall by the same act be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

Consuls, & c.

ARTICLE XXVIII. In order that the consuls and vice-consuls of the

two contracting parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immuni-

ties which belong to them by their character, they shall, before entering

upon the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent

in due form to the Government to which they are accredited ; and hav-

ing obtained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such

by all the authorities, magistrates, and inhabitants of the consular dis-
Their authority trict in which they reside. It is agreed likewise to receive and admit and privileges. consuls and vice-consuls in all the ports and places open to foreign com-

merce, who shall enjoy therein all the rights , prerogatives, and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the most favored nation , each of

the contracting parties remaining at liberty to except those ports and

places in which the admission and residence of such consuls and vice-

consuls may not seem expedient.

Deserters from ARTICLE XXIX . It is likewise agreed that the consuls, vice-consuls,

vessels.

their secretaries, officers and persons attached to the service of consuls ,

they not being citizens of the country in which the consul resides , shall

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

423

estos tribunales de alguna de las partes pronunciasen sen.encia contra algun buque, efectos ó propiedad que sea reclamada por ciudadanos de la otra en la sentencia se hará mencion de las razones ó motivos en que la haya fundado y se dará si la pidiere, una copia autentica de ella en conformidad con los usos y leyes del pais y de todos los procederes del caso al comandante ó agente del buque interesado sin demora alguna, pagando este las costas establecidas por la ley.

ARTICULO XXVI. Para mayor seguridad en la comunicacion entre los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America y los de Mexico, se conviene desde ahora para entonces que si acaeciese en lo sucesivo alguna interrupcion en las relaciones amistosas que hoy ecsisten ó si desgraciadamente hubiere un rompimiento hostil entre ambas partes contratantes se les conceder á el permiso de seis meses á los comerciantes que residan en las costas, y un año á los que esten en el interior de cada uno de los Estados y Territorios respectivos, para arreglar sus negocios, disponer de sus bienes ó transportarlos adonde gusten , dandoles un salvo conducto que los proteja hasta el puerto que ellos designen á los ciudadanos que se hallaren establecidos en los referidos Estados y Territorios ocupados en cualquier otro trafico ó ejercicio se les permitirá permanecer sin interrupcion en el goze de su libertad y propiedades mientras se comporten pacificamente y no cometan ofenza alguna contra las leyes, y sus bienes y efectos de cualquiera clase y condicion que sean no estarán sugetos á embargo ó secuestro alguno, ni á otro impuesto ni contribucion que los establecidos sobre efectos y bienes semejantes pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de los Estados en que respectivamente residan ; ni las deudas particulares, ni las cantidades en los fondos públicos, ó en los bancos públicos ó particulares , ni las acciones de las compañias podrán ser confiscadas, embargadas ni detenidas.
ARTICULO XXVII. Ambas partes contratantes deseando evitar toda desigualdad relativa á las comunicaciones públicas y oficiales, se han convenido y convienen en conceder á los enviados, ministros y otros agentes públicos , los mismos privilegios ecsenciones é inmunidades que hoy goza y en lo succesivo pueda gozar la nacion mas favorecida : debiendo entenderse que cualquier favor, inmunidad ó privilegio que los Estados Unidos de America ó los de Mexico tengan por conveniente conceder á los ministros ó agentes públicos de cualquiera otra potencia, será ipso-facto estensivo á cada una de las respectivas partes contratantes.
ARTICULO XXVIII. Para que los consules y vice-consules de las dos partes contratantes puedan gozar de los derechos, prerogativas é inmunidades que por su caracter les corresponden , presentarán al Gobierno cerca del cual estén destinados su patente ó despacho en debida forma antes de entrar en ejercicio de sus funciones ; y habiendo obtenido su execuatur, serán tenidos y considerados como tales por todas las autoridades, magistrados y habitantes del distrito consular donde residan . Se convienen tambien en recibir y admitir consules y vice-consules en todos los puertos y lugares abiertos al comercio estrangero, quienes gozarán en ellos todos los derechos, prerogativas é inmunidades de los consules y vice-consules de la nacion mas favorecida, quedando no obstante en libertad cada parte contratante para esceptuar aquellos
puertos y lugares en que la admision y residencia de semejantes consules y vice-consules no parezca conveniente.
ARTICULO XXIX . Ygualmente se conviene que los consules , sus secretarios, los oficiales y personas agregadas al servicio de los consules, no siendo estos ciudadanos del pais en que el consul resida, estarán

424

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

be exempt from all compulsory public service, and also from all kind of taxes, imposts, and contributions levied specially on them, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and foreign, of the country in which they reside, are subject ; being in every thing besides subject to the laws of their respective States. The archives and papers of the consulates shall be respected inviolably, and under no pretext whatever shall any magistrate seize, or in any way interfere with them.

Arrest and detention of deserters.

ARTICLE XXX. The said consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country, for the arrest, detention, and custody of deserters from the public and private vessels of their country ; and for that purpose, they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving, by an exhibition of the register of the vessel, or ship's roll, or other public documents, that the man or men demanded were part of said crews ; and on this demand so proved, (saving always where the contrary is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested, shall be placed at the disposal of the said consuls, and may be put in the public prisons at the request and expence of those who reclaim them, to be sent to the vessels to which they belong, or to others of the same nation . But, if they be not sent back within two months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause.

Consular convention .

ARTICLE XXXI . For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter as circumstances will permit, to form a consular convention, which shall declare specially the powers and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the respective parties.

Interior commerce : routes and escorts.

ARTICLE XXXII. For the purpose of regulating the interior commerce between the frontier territories of both Republics, it is agreed that the Executive of each shall have power, by mutual agreement, of determining on the route and establishing the roads by which such commerce shall be conducted ; and in all cases where the caravans employed in such commerce may require convoy and protection by military escort, the Supreme Executive of each nation, shall, by mutual agreement, in like manner, fix on the period of departure for such caravans, and the point at which the military escort of the two nations shall be exchanged. And it is further agreed, that, untill the regula tions for governing this interior commerce between the two nations shall be established, that the commercial intercourse between the State of Missouri of the United States of America, and New Mexico in the United Mexican States, shall be conducted as heretofore, each Government affording the necessary protection to the citizens of the other.

Indian hostilities to be prevented.

ARTICLE XXXIII. It is likewise agreed that the two contracting
parties shall, by all the means in their power, maintain peace and harmony among the several Indian nations who inhabit the lands adjacent to the lines and rivers which form the boundaries of the two countries ; and the better to attain this object, both parties bind themselves expressly to restrain, by force, all hostilities and incursions on the part of the Indian nations living within their respective boundaries : so that the United States of America will not suffer their Indians to attack the
citizens of the United Mexican States, nor the Indians inhabiting their territory ; nor will the United Mexican States permit the Indians residing within their territories to commit hostilities against the citizens of the United States of America, nor against the Indians residing within the limits of the United States, in any manner whatever.

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1831.

425

esentos del servicio público compulsivo y tambien de toda clase de impuestos y contribuciones señaladas especialmente á ellos, esceptuando las que respecto de su comercio ó propiedad estarán obligados á satisfacer del mismo modo que los ciudadanos y habitantes naturales y estrangeros del pais en que residan pagaren ; estando en todo lo demas sugetos a las leyes de los Estados respectivos. Los archivos y papeles oficiales de los consules serán respectados inviolablemente y por ningun pretesto sea el que fuere, podrán los magistrados embargarlos ni de ningun modo tomar conocimiento de ellos.
ARTICULO XXX . Los dichos consules tendrán poder de requerir el aucsilio de las autoridades locales para la prision , detencion y custodia de los desertores de buques nacionales y particulares de su pais, y para este objeto se dirijirá á los tribunales, jueces y oficiales competentes ; y pediran los dichos desertores por escrito, probando por una presentacion de los registros de los buques, roll del equipage, ú otros documentos públicos, que aquellos hombres eran parte de las dichas tripulaciones, y esta demanda asi provada (menos no obstante cuando se probare lo contrario) no se reusará la entrega. Semejantes desertores luego que sean arrestados, se pondrán á disposicion de los dichos consules, y pueden ser depositados en las prisiones públicas á solicitud y espensas de los que los reclamen para ser enviados á los buques á que correspondan, ó á otros de la misma nacion. Pero sino fueren mandados
dentro de dos meses contados desde el dia de su arresto, serán puestos en libertad, y no volverán á ser presos por la misma causa.

ARTICULO XXXI . Con objeto de protejer mas efiscasmente su comercio y navegacion las dos partes contratantes convienen, que tan luego como lo permitan las circunstancias formarán un convenio consular que declarará especialmente las facultades y prerrogativas de los consules y vice-consules de las partes respectivas.
ARTICULO XXXII . Con el fin de regularizar el comercio terrestre por las fronteras de ambas Repúblicas queda establecido que se fijarán por los Gobiernos de estas por mutuo convenio los caminos por donde este trafico há de ser conducido ; y en todos aquellos casos en que las caravanas que se forman para este comercio, necesiten convoy y proteccion de la fuerza militar se fijará tambien del mismo modo por mutuo convenio de ambos Gobiernos el tiempo de la partida de tales caravanas
y el punto en el cual se han de cambiar las escoltas de tropas de las dos naciones. Se há convenido ademas que entretanto se establecen las reglas que han de regir segun lo dicho en el comercio terrestre entre las dos naciones, las comunicaciones comerciales entre el Estado de
Missouri de los Estados Unidos de America, y el territorio de Nuevo Mexico en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos continuará como hasta aqui
concediendo cada Gobierno la proteccion necesaria á los ciudadanos de la otra parte.
ARTICULO XXXIII . Se há convenido igualmente que las dos partes contratantes procurarán por todos los medios posibles, mantener la paz y buena armonia entre las diversas tribus de Indios que habitan los terrenos adyacentes á las lineas y rios que forman los limites de los dos paises ; y para conseguir mejor este fin se obligan espresamente ambas partes á reprimir con la fuerza todo genero de hostilidades é incurciones de parte de las tribus Indias que habitan dentro de sus respectivos limites de modo que los Estados Unidos de America no permitirán que sus Indios ataquen á los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, ni á los Indios que habitan su territorio, y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos no permitirán tampoco que sus Indios hostilizen á los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America ó á sus Indios de manera alguna.

VOL VIII. 54

2L2

426

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831.

Prisoners made And in the event of any person or persons captured by the Indians by Indians tobe who inhabit the territory of either of the contracting parties, being or liberated, & c.
having been carried into the territories of the other, both Governments engage and bind themselves in the most solemn manner to return them to their country as soon as they know of their being within their respective territories, or to deliver them up to the agent or representative of the Government that claims them, giving to each other, reciprocally, timely notice, and the claimant paying the expenses incurred in the transmission and maintenance of such person or persons, who, in the mean time, shall be treated with the utmost hospitality by the local authorities of the place where they may be. Nor shall it be lawful, under any pretext whatever, for the citizens of either of the contracting parties to purchase or hold captive prisoners made by the Indians inhabiting the territories of the other.
ARTICLE XXXIV. The United States of America and the United
Mexican States, desiring to make as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties by virtue of this treaty or general convention of amity, commerce, and navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :

Treaty to be in force eight years, & c.

First. The present treaty shall remain and be of force for eight years from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and untill the end of one year after either of the contracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention to terminate the same ; each of the contract-
ing parties reserving to itself the right of giving such notice to the other, at the end of said term of eight years. And it is hereby agreed between them , that, on the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either of the parties from the other party, this treaty, in all its parts, relating to commerce and navigation, shall altogether cease and determine, and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship, it shall be permanently and perpetually binding on both the contracting parties.

Harmony of
parties not to be interrupted by acts of indi-
viduals.

Secondly. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizens shall be held personally responsible for the same ; and the harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby ; each party engaging, in no way, to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

Demand of satisfaction to
ptireesc. ede hostili

Thirdly. If (what indeed cannot be expected) any of the articles contained in the present treaty shall be violated or infracted in any manner whatever, it is stipulated that neither of the contracting parties will order or authorise any acts of reprisal , nor declare war against the other,

on complaints of injuries or damages, untill the said party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other a statement of such

injuries or damages, verified by competent proofs, and demanded justice and satisfaction , and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

Saving of Treaties with other powers.

Fourthly. Nothing in this treaty contained, shall however be construed to operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with other Sovereigns or States.

The present treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation , shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Vice-President of the United Mexican States, with the consent and approbation of the Congress thereof; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the city of Washington , within the term of one year, to be counted from the date of the signature hereof; or sooner, if possible .

TREATY WITH MEXICO. 1831 .

427

Y en el caso de que alguna ó algunas personas cojidas por los Indios que habitan los territorios de cada una de las partes contratantes, fuere ó hubiere sido llevada á los territorios de la otra, ambos Gobiernos se comprometen y obligan del modo mas solemne á devolverlas á su pais tan luego como sepan que se hallan en sus respectivos territorios ó entregarlas al agente ó encargado del mismo Gobierno que las reclame, dandose aviso oportuno reciprocamente, y abonandose por el que lo reclama los gastos erogados en la conducion y manutencion de la tal persona  personas aquienes entretanto se dispensará por las autoridades
locales del punto en que se encuentren la mas generosa hospitalidad. Ni será legitimo por ningun pretesto que los ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes compren ó retengan prisioneros cautivos hechos por los Indios que habitan el territorio de la otra.

ARTICULO XXXIV. Los Estados Unidos de America y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, deseosos de hacer tan permanentes como lo permitan las circunstancias las relaciones que van á establecerse entre las dos partes en virtud de este tratado ó convenio general de amistad, comercio y navegacion, han declarado solemnemente, y convienen en los puntos siguientes :
Primero. El presente tratado permanecerá y estará en todo su rigor y fuerza por el termino de ocho años que deberán contarse desde el dia del cambio de las ratificaciones, y terminados estos continuará rigiendo hasta el termino de un año contado desde el dia en que alguna de las dos partes contratantes haya dado noticia á la otra de su resolucion de poner fin á este convenio. Y cada una de las partes contratantes se reserva asi misma el derecho de dar este aviso á la otra al cabo del referido termino de ocho años , quedando ademas convenido entre embas que al cabo de un año despues de recibido tal aviso por alguna de las partes contratantes de parte de la otra, este tratado deberá cesar y acabar en todo cuanto tiene relacion con comercio y navegacion , quedando solo permanente y perpetuamente valedero y obligatorio á ambas partes contratantes en todo cuanto toca á la paz y amistad entre ambas.
Segundo. Si uno ó mas ciudadanos de alguna de las partes infringiere algun articulo de este tratado, será personalmente responsable de ello ; pero no por esto se interrumpirá la armonia y buena correspondencia entre las dos naciones ; á cuyo fin ambas partes respectivamente se comprometen á no protejer á el agresor, ni sancionar semejante infraccion .
Tercero. Si (lo que no es de esperar) alguno de los articulos del presente tratado desgraciadamente fuere violado ó infringido de cualquiera otro modo se estipula que ninguna de las partes contratantes dispondrá ó autorizará ninguna clase de represalia , ni declarará guerra á la otra por queja de injuria ó daño hasta que le misma parte que se considera agraviada no haya presentado á la otra una relacion de las injurias ò daños competentemente comprobada, y sobre ello hubiese pedido justicia y satisfaccion, y esta hubiere sido negada ó sin razon demorada.
Cuarto. Nada de lo contenido en este tratado podrá de manera alguna interpretarse ni obrará en contra de los tratados públicos celebrados anteriormente y ecsistentes con otros Soberanos y Estados.
El presente tratado de amistad , comercio y navegacion será aprobado y ratificado por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America con la anuencia y consentimiento de su Senado, y por el Vice Presidente de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos , previo el consentimiento y aprobacion del Congreso ; y las ratificaciones serán cangeadas en la ciudad de Washington en el termino de un año contado desde la fecha en que fueren firmados, ó antes si fuere posible

428

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1831.

In witness whereof, We, the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of the United Mexican States, have signed and

sealed these presents. Done in the city of Mexico, on the fifth

day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred

and thirty-one, in the fifty-fifth year of the Independence of the

United States of America, and in the eleventh of that of the United

Mexican States.

A. BUTLER ,

(L. s.)

LUCAS ALAMAN , (L. S.)

RAFAEL MANGINO, (L. s.)

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE .

Fifth and sixta Whereas, in the present state of the Mexican shipping, it would not

articles sus-

be possible for Mexico to receive the full advantage of the reciprocity

pended.

established in the fifth and sixth articles of the treaty signed this day,

Satitute.

it is agreed that for the term of six years, the stipulations contained in the said articles shall be suspended ; and in lieu thereof, it is hereby

agreed, that, untill the expiration of the said term of six years, Ameri-

can vessels entering into the ports of Mexico, and all articles, the pro-

duce, growth, or manufacture of the United States of America, imported in such vessels, shall pay no other or higher duties, than are or may

hereafter be payable in the said ports by the vessels and the like articles,

the growth, produce, or manufacture of the most favored nation ; and,

reciprocally, it is agreed that Mexican vessels entering into the ports of the United States of America, and all articles, the growth, produce, or

manufacture of the United Mexican States, imported in such vessels,

shall pay no other or higher duties than are, or may hereafter be, pay-

able in the said ports by the vessels and the like articles, the growth,

produce, or manufacture of the most favored nation ; and that no higher duties shall be paid, or bounties or drawbacks allowed, on the exporta-

tion of any article, the growth, produce, or manufacture of either coun-

try, in the vessels of the other, than upon the exportation of the like articles in the vessels of any other foreign country.

The present additional article shall have the same force and value as as if it had been inserted, word for word, in the treaty signed this day. It shall be ratified, and the ratification exchanged at the same time.
In witness whereof, We , the respective Plenipotentiaries, have signed and sealed the same.

Done at Mexico, on the fifth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one.

A. BUTLER, LUCAS ALAMAN , RAFAEL MANGINO,

(L. S.) (L. S.) (L. S.)

TREATY WITH MEXICO . 1831 .

129

En fé de lo cual, los respectivos Plenipotenciarios lo hemos firmado y sellado con nuestros sellos respectivos. Fecho en Mexico á los cinco dias de Abril del año del Señor de mil ochocientos treinta y uno, undecimo de la independencia de los Estados Unidos Mejicanos y quinquagesimo quinto de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

LUCAS ALAMAN,

(L. S. )

RAFAEL MANGINO, (L. s.)

A. BUTLER ,

(L. S. )

ARTICULO ADICIONAL .
Por cuanto en el presente estado de la marina Mejicana no seria posible que Mexico gozase de las ventajas que deberá producir la reciprocidad establecida por los articulos 5º y 6º del tratado firmado en este dia, se estipula que durante el espacio de seis años se suspenderá lo convenido en dichos articulos y en su lugar se estipula que hasta la conclucion del termino mencionado de seis años, los buques Americanos que entren en los puertos de Mexico , y todos los articulos de producto, fruto ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos de America importados en tales buques , no pagarán otros ni mayores derechos, que los que se pagan ó en adelante se pagaren en los referidos puertos, por los buques é iguales articulos de fruto, producto ó manufactura de la nacion mas favorecida, y reciprocamente se estipula que los buques Mejicanos que entren en los puertos de los Estados Unidos de America y todos los articulos de fruto, producto ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos importados en tales buques, no pagarán otros ni mayores derechos que los que se pagan, ó en adelante se pagaren en los mencionados puertos por los buques y semejantes articulos de producto, fruto ó manufactura de la nacion mas favorecida ; y que no se pagarán mayores derechos, ni se concederán otras franquicias y descuentos á la esportacion de cualquiera articulo de producto, fruto ó manufactura de cada uno de los dos paises en los buques del otro mas que á la esportacion de dichos articulos en buques de cualquiera otro pais estrangero.
El presente articulo adicional tendrá la misma fuerza y valor que si se hubiera insertado palabra por palabra en el tratado de este dia. Sera ratificado y la ratificacion cambiada al mismo tiempo.
En fé de lo cual, los respectivos Plenipotenciarios lo hemos firmado y sellado con nuestros sellos respectivos.
Fecho en Mexico á cinco de Abril de mil ochocientos treinta y uno.

LUCAS ALAMAN , RAFAEL MANGINO, A. BUTLER ,

(L. S. ) (L. s.) (L. S. )

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. ( a)

July 4, 1831.
Ratifications exchanged, Feb. 2, 1832.
Proclamation of the President of the U.S., July 13, 1832.

The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the French, animated with an equal desire to adjust amicably, and in a manner conformable to equity, as well as to the relations of good intelligence and sincere friendship which unite the two countries, the reclamations formed by the respective Governments, have, for this purpose, named for their plenipotentiaries, to wit, the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , William C.

1832, ch. 199. Rives, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the said

United States, near His Majesty the King of the French, and His Majesty the King of the French, Count Horace Sebastiani, Lieutenant General

of his Armies, his Minister Secretary of State for the Department of

Foreign Affairs, & c. & c. , who, after having exchanged their full powers,

found in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Indemnity to American citi-
zens.

The French Government, in order to liberate itself completely from all the reclamations preferred against it by citizens of the United States, for unlawful seizures, captures, sequestrations, confiscations, or destructions of their vessels, cargoes, or other property, engages to pay a sum of twenty-five millions of francs to the Government ofthe United States, who shall distribute it among those entitled , in the manner and according to the rules which it shall determine.

ARTICLE II.

Payments.

The sum of twenty-five millions of francs, above stipulated , shall be paid at Paris, in six annual instalments, of four millions one hundred and sixty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-six francs sixty-six centimes each, into the hands of such person or persons as shall be authorised by the Government of the United States to receive it.
The first installment shall be paid at the expiration of one year next following the exchange of the ratifications of this convention, and the others at successive intervals of a year, one after another, till the whole shall be paid.
To the amount of each of the said instalments shall be added interest at four per cent. thereupon, as upon the other instalments then remain-
ing unpaid ; the said interest to be computed from the day of the ex change of the ratifications of the present convention.

Indemnity to
French Govern ment.

ARTICLE III.
The Government of the United States, on its part, for the purpose of being liberated completely from all the reclamations presented by France on behalf of its citizens, or of the Royal Treasury, ( either for ancient supplies or accounts, the liquidation of which had been reserved , or for unlawful seizures, captures, detentions , arrests, or destructions of French vessels, cargoes, or other property, ) engages to pay to the Government of His Majesty (which shall make distribution of the same in the manner and according to the rules to be determined by it) the sum of one million five hundred thousand francs.

ARTICLE IV.

Payments.

The sum of one million five hundred thousand francs, stipulated in the preceding article , shall be payable in six annual instalments, of two

(a) For notes of the treaties and conventions with France , see ante, page 6. (430)

CONVENTION À FRANCE.
Les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français étant animés d'un égal désir de régler à l'amiable et d'une manière conforme à l'équité aussi bien qu'aux relations de bonne harmonie et d'amitié sincère qui unissent les deux pays, les réclamations formées par les Gouvernemens respectifs, ont, à cet effet, nommé pour leurs plénipotentiares ; savoir, le Président des Etats Unis, de l'avis et avec le consentement du Sénat, Mr. William C. Rives, Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire des dits Etats près de Sa Majesté le Roi des Français, et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français, Mr. le Comte Horace Sebastiani, Lieutenant Général de ses Armées, son Ministre Secrétaire d'Etat au Département des Affaires Etrangères, & c. & c. , lesquels après avoir échangé leurs pleins pouvoirs trouvés en bonne et due forme, sont convenus des articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
Le Gouvernement Français, à l'effet de se libérer complétement de toutes les réclamations élevées contre lui par des citoyens des Etats Unis, pour saisies, captures, séquestres, confiscations et destructions illégales de leurs navires, cargaisons, ou autres propriétés, s'engage à payer une somme de vingt cinq millions de francs au Gouvernement des Etats Unis, qui en fera la répartition entre les ayant droit, suivant le mode et d'après les règles qu'il déterminera.
ARTICLE II.
La somme de vingt cinq millions de francs, stipulée ci-dessus, sera payée à Paris, en six termes annuels, de quatre millions cent soixante six mille six cent soixante six francs soixante six centimes, entre les mains de la personne ou des personnes que le Gouvernement des Etats Unis aura autorisées à la recevoir.
Le premier paiement aura lieu à l'expiration de l'année qui suivra l'échange des ratifications de la présente convention, et les autres paiemens s'effectueront successivement d'année en année jusqu'à parfait acquittement de la somme entière.
Au montant de chacun des paiemens annuels ainsi reglés, seront ajoutés les intérêts à quatre pour cent, tant du terme échu que des termes à échoir ; ces intérêts seront calculés à partir du jour des ratifications de la présente convention.
ARTICLE III.
De son coté, le Gouvernement des Etats Unis, pour se libérer complétement de toutes les réclamations présentées par la France, dans l'intérêt de ses citoyens ou du Trésor Royal, à raison, soit d'anciennes fournitures ou comptes dont la liquidation avait été reservée, soit de saisies, captures, détentions, arrestations et destructions illégales de navires, cargaisons ou autres propriétes Francaises, s'engage à payer au Gouvernement de Sa Majesté qui en fera la distribution aux ayant droit, suivant le mode et d'après les règles qu'il déterminera, la somme de quinze cent mille francs.
ARTICLE IV.
La somme de quinze cent mille francs stipulée dans l'article précedent sera payable en six termes annuels de deux cent cinquante mille
(431 )

432

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE . 1831 .

hundred and fifty thousand francs ; and the payment of each of the said instalments shall be effected by a reservation of so much out of the annual sums which the French Government is bound , by the second article above, to pay to the Government of the United States.
To the amount of each of these instalments shall be added interest
at four per cent. upon the instalment then paid, as well as upon those still due ; which payments of interest shall be effected by means of a reservation, similar to that already indicated for the payment of the principal. The said interest shall be computed from the day of the exchange of the ratifications of the present convention.

ARTICLE V.

Other claims.

As to the reclamations of French citizens against the Government of the United States, and the reclamations of citizens of the United States
against the French Government, which are of a different nature from those which it is the object of the present convention to adjust, it is understood that the citizens of the two nations may prosecute them in the respective countries before the competent judicial or administrative authorities, in complying with the laws and regulations of the country, the

dispositions and benefit of which, shall be applied to them, in like manner as to native citizens.

ARTICLE VI.

Reciprocal engagement to communicate
documents, & c.

The French Government and the Government of the United States reciprocally engage to communicate to each other, by the intermediary of the respective legations, the documents, titles, or other informations proper to facilitate the examination and liquidation of the reclamations comprised in the stipulations of the present convention.

ARTICLE VII.

French wines.

The wines of France, from and after the exchange of the ratifications of the present convention, shall be admitted to consumption in the States of the Union at duties which shall not exceed the following rates, by the gallon, (such as it is used at present for wines in the United States, ) to wit, six cents for red wines in casks ; ten cents for white wines in casks ; and twenty-two cents for wines of all sorts in bottles. The proportion existing between the duties on French wines thus re-

duced, and the general rates of the tariff which went into operation the first of January, 1829, shall be maintained, in case the Government of

the United States should think proper to diminish those general rates in a new tariff.

In consideration of this stipulation, which shall be binding on the

Eighth article Louisiana cession treaty.

United States for ten years, the French Government abandons the reclamations which it had formed in relation to the Sth article of the treaty of cession of Louisiana. It engages, moreover, to establish on the long staple cottons of the United States, which, after the exchange

of the ratifications of the present convention , shall be brought directly thence to France by the vessels of the United States, or by French

vessels, the same duties as on short staple cottons.

ARTICLE VIII.

Exchange of ratifications.

The present convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington, in the space of eight months, or sooner, if possible.

In faith of which, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed these articles, and thereto set their seals.

Done at Paris, the fourth day of the month of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one. W. C. RIVES, (L. s.)

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1831 .

433

es, et le paiement de chacun de ces termes aura lieu au moyen d'une tete de de pareille somme que le Gouvernement Français exercera sur les versemens annuels qu'il s'est engagé par l'article 2 ci-dessus à effectuer entre les mains du Gouvernement des Etats Unis.
Au montant de chacun de ces termes seront ajoutés les intérêts à quatre pour cent tant du terme échu que des termes à echoir au moyen d'une retenue analogue à celle qui vient d'être indiquée pour le paiement du capital. Ces intérêts seront calculés à partir du jour des ratifications de la présente convention.

ARTICLE V.
Quant aux réclamations des citoyens Francais contre le Gouvernebient des Etats Unis et aux réclamations des citoyens des Etats Unis contre le Gouvernement Français, qui sont d'une autre nature que celles auxquelles la présente convention a pour objet de faire droit, il est entendu que les citoyens des deux nations pourront les poursuivre dans les pays respectifs auprès des autorités judiciaires ou administratives compétentes on se soumettant aux lois et réglemens locaux, dont les dispositions et le bénéfice leur seront appliqués comme aux nationaux eux mêmes.

ARTICLE VI.
Le Gouvernement Français et le Gouvernement des Etats Unis s'engagent réciproquement à se communiquer par l'intermediaire des légations respectives, les documens, titres, ou renseignemens propres à faciliter l'examen et la liquidation des réclamations comprises dans les stipulations de la présente convention.
ARTICLE VII.
A partir de l'échange des ratifications de la présente convention les vins de France seront admis à la consommation dans les Etats de l'Union, à des droits qui ne pourront pas excéder par gallon , ( tel qu'il est actuellement usité pour les vins aux Etats Unis,) savoir, six cents pour les vins rouges en futailles : dix cents pour les vins blancs en futailles ; et vingt deux cents pour les vins de toutes sortes en bouteilles. Le rapport dans lequel les droits ainsi réduits sur les vins de France se trouvent avec les taxations générales du tarif mis en vigueur le ler Janvier 1829, sera maintenu dans le cas où le Gouvernement des Etats Unis jugerait à propos de diminuer dans un nouveau tarif ces taxations générales.

Au moyen de cette stipulation qui demeurera obligatoire pour les Etats Unis pendant dix années, le Gouvernement Français abandonne les réclamations qu'il avait élevées relativement à l'exécution de l'article 8 du traité de cession de la Louisiane. Il s'engage en outre à établir sur les cotons longue soie des Etats Unis, qui à compter de l'échange des ratifications de la présente convention seront directement apportées de ce pays en France par navires des Etats Unis ou par navires Français, les mêmes droits que sur les cotons courte soie.
ARTICLE VIII.
La présente convention sera ratifiée et les ratifications en seront échangées à Washington dans le terme de huit mois , ou plus tot si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi, les plénipotentiaires respectifs l'ont signée et y ont apposé leurs cachets.

Fait à Paris, le quatrième jour du mois de Juillet, de l'année mil huit cent trente et un.

VOL. VIII. 55

HORACE SEBASTIANI, ( L. 8.) 2M

GENERAL CONVENTION OF PEACE, AMITY, COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION,

May 16, 1832. Between the United States of America and the Republic of

Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., April 29, 1834.

Chile. In the name of God, Author and Legislator of the Universe.

Ratifications exchanged at Washington, April, 29, 1834.
Post. p. 456.

The United States of America, and the republic of Chile, desiring to make firm and lasting the friendship and good understanding which happily prevails between both nations, have resolved to fix , in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall in future be religiously observed between the one and the other , by means of a treaty or general

convention of peace and friendship, commerce and navigation. For this most desirable object, the President of the United States of
America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, has appointed, and conferred full powers on John Hamm, a citizen of said States, and their Chargé d'Affaires near the said republic ; and his excellency the President of the republic of Chile has appointed Señor

Don Andres Bello, a citizen of the said republic.

And the said plenipotentiaries, after having mutually produced and exchanged copies of their full powers, in due and proper form, have

agreed upon and concluded the following articles, videlicet :

Peace and friendship.

ARTICLE I. There shall be a perfect, firm , and inviolable peace and sincere friendship between the United States of America and the republic of Chile, in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between their people and citizens respectively, without distinction of persons or places.

Favors granted tshoaoltlhbeercnoamtieons common.
Exceptions.

ARTICLE II . The United States of America and the republic of Chile, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all, engage mutually, not to grant any particular favor to other nations in respect of commerce and navigation , which shall not, immediately, become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional. It is understood , however, that the relations and convention which now exist, or may hereafter exist, between the republic of Chile and the republic of Bolivia, the federation of the Centre of America, the republic of Columbia, the United States of Mexico, the republic of Peru, or the United Provinces of the Rio de la Plata, shall form exceptions to this article.

Navigation and commerce.

ARTICLE III. The citizens of the United States of America may frequent all the coasts and countries of the republic of Chile, and reside and trade there, in all sorts of produce, manufactures, and merchandize, and shall pay no other or greater duties, charges, or fees, whatsoever , than the most favoured nation is or shall be obliged to pay ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges, and exemptions in navigation and commerce, which the most favored nation does or shall enjoy, submitting themselves, nevertheless, to the laws, decrees, and usages there established, and to which are submitted the citizens and subjects of the most favored nations.
In like manner the citizens of the republic of Chile may frequent all the coasts and countries of the United States of America, and reside
(434)

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

435

and trade there, in all sorts of produce, manufactures, and merchandise, and shall pay no other or greater duties, charges or fees, whatsoever, than the most favored nation is or shall be obliged to pay, and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges, and exemptions in commerce and navigation, which the most favored nation does or shall enjoy, submitting themselves, nevertheless, to the laws, decrees, and usages, there established , and to which are submitted the citizens and subjects of the most favored nations. But it is understood , that this article does not include the coasting trade of either country, the regulation of which is reserved by the parties, respectively, according to their own separate laws.

Coasting trade excepted.

ARTICLE IV. It is likewise agreed that it shall be wholly free for all Merchants merchants, commanders of ships , and other citizens of both countries, taondmaonthaegres tfhreeier to manage, themselves, their own business, in all ports and places sub- own business. ject to the jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and sale of their goods and merchandise, by wholesale and retail, as with respect to the loading, unloading, and sending off their ships, they being in all these cases to be treated as citizens of the country in which they reside, or at least to be placed on a footing with the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation.

ARTICLE V. The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels, cargoes, merchandise, or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any public or private purpose whatever, without allowing to those interested a sufficient indemnification.

Indemnifica. tion for embargo or detention.

ARTICLE VI. Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting
parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports, or dominions of the other, with their vessels, whether of merchant or of war, public or private, through stress of weather , pursuit of pirates, or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to them all favor and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provi sions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.

Asylum se cured.

ARTICLE VII. All the ships, merchandise and effects belonging to Vessels, & c.

the citizens of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured captured by pi

by pirates, whether within the

limits of its jurisdiction or on the

high

rates, to be restored.

seas, and may be carried or found in the rivers, roads, bays, ports, or

dominions of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving

in due and proper form their rights before the competent tribunals ; it

being well understood, that the claim should be made within the term

of one year by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of their

respective Governments.

ARTICLE VIII. When any vessel belonging to the citizens of either Protection in of the contracting parties shall be wrecked, foundered, or suffer any case of wreck . damage on the coasts, or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to them all assistance and protection in the same manner which is usual and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens, permitting them to unload the said vessel, if necessary, of its merchandise and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or
contribution whatever, until they may be exported, unless they be destined for consumption in the country.

ARTICLE IX . The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall
have power to dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation , testament, or otherwise, and their repre-
sentatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof, either by themselves or others acting for them , and

Personal and real estate.

436

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

Protection to residents,

dispose of the same at their will , paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country, wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases and if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs would be prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance, on account of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years to dispose of the same, as they may think proper, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation, and exempt from any other charges than those which may be imposed by the laws of the country .
ARTICLE X. Both the contracting parties promise and engage formally to give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice for their judicial recourse on the same terms which are usual and customary, with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be for which they may employ in defence of their rights such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at law ; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which may concern them, and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited in the said trials.

Security of conscience, &c.

ARTICLE XI. It is likewise agreed that the most perfect and entire security of conscience shall be enjoyed by the citizens of both the contracting parties in the countries subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other, without their being liable to be disturbed or molested on account of their religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages of the country. Moreover, the bodies of the citizens of one of the contracting parties, who may die in the territories of the other, shall be buried in the usual burying grounds, or in other decent or suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

Free ships to make free goods.
Proviso.

ARTICLE XII. It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States
of America and of the republic of Chile to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made, who are the proprietors of the merchandise laden thereon , from any port to the places of those who now are or hereafter shall be at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It shall likewise be lawful for the citizens aforesaid to sail with the ships and merchandise before mentioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports, and havens, of those who are enemies of both or either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy, before mentioned, to neutral places, but also, from one place belonging to an enemy, to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of the one power, or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt, which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either, contraband goods being always excepted . It is also agreed, in like manner, that the same liberty be extended to persons who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that although they be enemies to both or either, they are not to be taken out of that free ship unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemies : Provided, however, and it is hereby agreed, that the stipulations in this article contained, declaring that the flag shall cover the property, shall be understood as applying to those powers only who recognise the principle ; but if either

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

437

of the two contracting parties should be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag ofthe neutral shall cover the property of enemies whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE XIII. It is likewise agreed, that in the case where the neu- Neutral protral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of peenretmyyo'ns vbeosasredlthe enemies of the other, by virtue of the above stipulation, it shall liable to conalways be understood that the neutral property found on board such demnation. enemy's vessels shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and as such shall be liable to detention and confiscation, except such pro- Exception. perty as was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war, or
even afterwards, if it were done without the knowledge of it ; but the contracting parties agree, that, four months having elapsed after the declaration, their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that case, the goods and merchandise of the neutral, embarked in such enemy's ship, shall be free.
ARTICLE XIV. This liberty of commerce and navigation shall extend Contraband articles.
to all kinds of merchandises, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband, and under this name of contraband, or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended-
ist. Cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets, fuzees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberds, and grenades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms ;
2d. Bucklers, helmets, breast-plates, coats of mail , infantry belts, and clothes made up in the form and for a military use.
3d. Cavalry belts, and horses with their furniture. 4th. And generally all kinds of arms and instruments of iron, steel, brass, and copper, or of any other materials manufactured, prepared and formed, expressly, to make war by sea or land.

ARTICLE XV. All other merchandise and things not comprehended
in the articles of contraband explicitly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce, so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are at that time be-
sieged or blockaded ; and, to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared that those places only are besieged or blockaded, which are actually attacked by a belligerent force capable of preventing the entry ofthe neutral.

All other artscles free, exacedpetdtpoobrltosc. k-

ARTICLE XVI. The articles of contraband, before enumerated and Contraband

classified which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation, leaving free the rest of the cargo and the ship , that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the

carotnicdleesmnnotthtoose not so.

high seas on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever the master, captain, or supercargo of said vessel will deliver up the

articles of contraband to the captor, unless the quantity of such articles be so great, and of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on

board the capturing ship without great inconvenience ; but in this and

in all other cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to

the nearest convenient and safe port, for trial and judgment according to law.

ARTICLE XVII. And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail Notice of or a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the blockade.
same is besieged, blockaded, or invested, it is agreed , that every vessel 2 M2

438

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

so circumstanced, may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated, unless, after warning of such blockade or investment from any officer commanding a vessel of the blockading forces, she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such port before the same was actually besieged, blockaded, or invested, by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo, nor if found therein after the reduction and surrender, shall such vessel or her cargo be liable to confiscation , but they shall be restored to the owners thereof; and if any vessel having thus entered the port before the blockade took place, shall take on board a cargo after the blockade be established , she shall be subject to be warned by the blockading forces, to return to the port blockaded, and discharge the said cargo ; and, if after receiving the said warning, the vessel shall persist in going out with the cargo, she shall be liable to the same consequences as a vessel attempting to enter a blockaded port, after being warned off by the blockading forces.

Regulation of visits at sea.

ARTICLE XVIII . In order to prevent all kinds of disorder in the visiting and examination of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high seas, they have agreed, mutually, that whenever a vessel of war, public or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain at the greatest distance compatible with making the visit, under the circumstances of the sea and wind,

and the degree of suspicion attending the vessel to be visited, and shall send its smallest boat in order to execute the said examination of the

papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion, violence, or ill-treatment, for which the commanders of the said armed ships shall be responsible with their persons and pro-

perty ; for which purpose the commanders of the said private armed vessels shall, before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all damages they may commit. And it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall, in no case, be required to go on board the examining vessel, for the purpose of exhibiting her papers, or for any other purpose whatever.

Sea letters or
passports in case of war.

ARTICLE XIX . To avoid all kinds of vexation and abuse in the exa-
mination of the papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens of the two contracting parties, they have agreed , and do agree, that, in case one of them shall be engaged in war, the ships and vessels belonging to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea letters or passports, expressing the name, property and bulk of the ship, as also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of said vessel , in order that it may thereby appear, that the ship really and truly belongs to the citizens of one of the parties ; they have likewise agreed that, such ships, being laden, besides the sea-letters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates containing the several particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed, so that it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship sailed, in the accustomed form ; without which requisites, said vessel may be detained, to be adjudged by the competent tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said

defect shall be proved to be owing to accident, and be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.

Vessels and convoy.

ARTICLE XX . It is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed, relative to the visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which sail without convoy ; and when said vessels shall be

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

439

under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of honor, that the vessels under his protection belong to

the nation whose flag he carries ; and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.
ARTICLE XXI. It is further agreed that, in all cases the established courts for prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted, shall alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal of either party shall pronounce judgment against any vessel or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reasons or motives on which the same

Prize courts.

shall have been founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded , be delivered to the commandant or agent of said vessel, without any delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

ARTICLE XXII . Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be No citizen of either party to
engaged in war with another state, no citizen of the other contracting enter the serparty shall accept a commission, or letter of marque, for the purpose of vice of an eneassisting or co-operating hostilely, with the said enemy, against the said my ofthe other.
party so at war, under the pain of being treated as a pirate.

ARTICLE XXIII . If, by any fatality which cannot be expected, and bIentwceaesne othfewar which God forbid, the two contracting parties should be engaged in a parties. war with each other, they have agreed , and do agree, now for then, that there shall be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts and in the ports of each other, and the term of one year to those who dwell in the interior, to arrange their business and transport their effects wherever they please, giving to them the safe conduct necessary for it, which may serve as a sufficient protection until they arrive at the designated port. The citizens of all other occupations who may be established in the territories or dominions of the United States of America, and of the republic of Chile, shall be respected and maintained in the full enjoyment of their personal liberty and property, unless their particular conduct shall cause them to forfeit this protection, which, in consideration of humanity, the contracting parties engage to give them.
ARTICLE XXIV . Neither the debts due from the individuals of the Private and one nation, to the individuals of the other, nor shares, nor money which public debts they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall sacred. ever, in any event of war, or of national difference, be sequestrated or confiscated.

ARTICLE XXV. Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoid- Public agents ing all inequality in relation to their public communications, and official oonf tthhoesfeoootfitnhge intercourse, have agreed, and do agree, to grant to their envoys, minis- most favored ters, and other public agents, the same favors, immunities, and exemp- nation. tions which those of the most favored nation do, or shall enjoy ; it being understood that whatever favors, immunities, or privileges the United States of America or the republic of Chile may find it proper to
give to the ministers and public agents of any other power, shall, by the same act, be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.
ARTICLE XXVI. To make more effectual the protection which the Consuls, &c. United States of America and the republic of Chile shall afford in to be admitted. future to the navigation and commerce of the citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit consuls and vice consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, of the consuls and vice consuls of the most favored nations ; each contracting party, however, remaining at

440

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such consuls may not seem convenient.

Consuls, & c. must exhibit their commis. sions.

ARTICLE XXVII. In order that the consuls and vice consuls of the
two contracting parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immunities , which belong to them, by their public character, they shall, before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent, in due form, to the Government to which they are accredited ; and, having obtained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such, by all the authorities, magistrates and inhabitants, in the consular district in which they reside.

Immunities of consuls, & c.

ARTICLE XXVIII. It is likewise agreed, that the consuls, their secretaries, officers, and persons attached to the service of consuls, they not being citizens of the country in which the consul resides, shall be exempt from all public service, and, also, from all kinds of taxes, imposts, and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce, or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and foreign, of the country in which they reside are subject ; being in every thing besides subject to the laws of their respective states. The archives and papers of the consulate shall be respected inviolably ; and, under no pretext whatever, shall any magistrate seize, or in any way interfere with them.

May require the aid of the

ARTICLE XXIX . The said consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country for the arrest, detention,

tciovialrraeustthodreisteirets- and custody of deserters from the public and private vessels of their

ers .

country ; and, for that purpose they shall address themselves to the

courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said de-

serters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessel

or ship's roll, or other public documents, that those men were part of

said crews ; and, on this demand, so proved, (saving, however, where the contrary is proved) the delivery shall not be refused. Such de-

serters, when arrested, shall be put at the disposal of said consuls, and

may be put in the public prison at the request and expence of those who

Deserters must be sent back within two
months.

reclaim them , to be sent to the ships to which they belonged, or to others of the same nation . But if they be not sent back within two months, reckoning from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall no more be arrested for the same cause. It is under-
stood, however, that if the deserter should be found to have committed

any crime or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the tribunal

before which the case may be depending, shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.

Consular con. vention to be formed.

ARTICLE XXX. For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter as circumstances will permit them, to form a consular convention, which shall declare, specially, the powers and immunities of the consuls and vice consuls of the respective parties.

Treaty to remain in force twelve years.

ARTICLE XXXI. The United States of America and the Republic of Chile, desiring to make, as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties, by virtue of this treaty, or general convention of peace, amity, commerce , and
navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :
1st. The present treaty shall remain in full force and virtue for the term of twelve years, to be reckoned from the day of the exchange of the ratifications ; and , further until the end of one year after either of the contracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention to terminate the same ; each of the contracting parties reserving to

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1832.

441

itself the right of giving such notice to the other, at the end of said

term of twelve years : and it is hereby agreed between them, that, on

the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either, from the other party, this treaty, in all the parts relating to

commerce and navigation, shall altogether cease and determine ; and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship, it shall be perma-

nently and perpetually binding on both powers.

2d. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen shall be held personally responsible for the same, and the harmony and good correspondence between the nations shall not be interrupted thereby ; each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.
3d. If, (which, indeed, cannot be expected, ) unfortunately, any of the articles contained in the present treaty shall be violated or infringed in any other way whatever, it is expressly stipulated that neither of the

Individuals pseprosnosniballelyforreinfringements.
Manner ofpro cedure in case ofinfringement.

contracting parties will order or authorize any acts of reprisal , nor declare war against the other, on complaints of injuries or damages,

until the said party, considering itself offended , shall first have presented

to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by com-

petent proof, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

4th. Nothing in this treaty contained shall, however, be construed to operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with other
sovereigns or States. The present treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, shall
be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the President of the Republic of Chile, with the consent and approba-

Existing treataifefsecntoetd.to be
To be ratified within nine months.

tion of the Congress of the same ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the City of Washington within nine months, to be reckoned from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if practicable.

In faith whereof, we, the underwritten plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, and of the Republic of Chile, have signed, by virtue of our powers, the present treaty of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation, and have hereunto affixed our seals, respectively.

Done and concluded, in triplicate, in the city of Santiago, this sixteenth day of the month of May- in the year of our Lord Jesus Christ one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two ; and in the fiftysixth year of the independence of the United States of America, and the twenty-third of that of the Republic of Chile.
JNO. HAMM , ANDRES BELLO, (L. 8.)

CONVENTION

Oct. 14, 1832. Between the Government of the United States of America,

Ratified June 8, 1833. Proclamation ofthe President of the United
States, Aug.27, 1833.

and his Majesty the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies to terminate the reclamations of said Government, for the depredations inflicted upon American commerce, by Murat during the years 1809, 1810, 1811 , and 1812 .

1833, ch. 96.

THE Government of the United States of America and his Majesty the King ofthe Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, desiring to terminate the reclamations advanced by said Government against his said Majesty, in order that the merchants of the United States may be indemnified for the losses inflicted upon them by Murat, by the depredations, seizures, confiscations and destruction of their vessels and cargoes, during the years 1809 , 1810, 1811 , and 1812, and his Sicilian Majesty desiring thereby to strengthen with the said Government the bonds of that harmony, not hitherto disturbed ; the said Government of the United States
and his aforesaid Majesty, the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, have with one accord resolved to come to an adjustment ; to effectuate which they have respectively named and furnished with the necessary powers, viz. the said Government of the United States, John Nelson, Esquire, a citizen of said States, and their Chargé d'Affaires near his Majesty the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies ; and his Majesty his Excellency D. Antonio Maria Statello Prince of Cassaro Marquis of Spaccaforno Count Statello etc. etc. etc. his said Majesty's Minister Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs etc. etc. who after the exchange of their respective full powers found in good and due form , have agreed to the following articles :

Agreement to pay U. S. for
spoliations on American property.

ARTICLE 1st. His Majesty the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, with a view to satisfy the aforesaid reclamations, for the depredations, sequestrations, confiscations and destruction of the vessels and cargoes of the merchants of the United States, ( and for every expense of every kind whatsoever incident to, or growing out of the same) inflicted by Murat during the years 1809, 1810 , 1811 , and 1812, obliges himself to pay the sum of two millions, one hundred and fifteen thousand Neapolitan ducats to the Government of the United States ; seven thousand six hundred and seventy-nine ducats, part thereof, to be ap-
plied to reimburse the said Government for the expense incurred by it, in the transportation of American seamen from the Kingdom of Naples, during the year 1810, and the residue to be distributed amongst the claimants by the said Government of the United States, in such manner and according to such rules as it may prescribe.

To be paid in nine equal instalments.

ARTICLE 2d. The sum of two millions one hundred and fifteen thou
sand Neapolitan ducats agreed on in article the 1st, shall be paid in Naples, in nine equal instalments of two hundred and thirty-five thousand ducats and with interest thereon at the rate of four per centum per annum, to be calculated from the date of the interchange of the ratifications of this Convention , untill the whole sum shall be paid. The first instalment shall be payable twelve months after the exchange of the
(442)

CONVENZIONE
Fra Sua Maestà il Re del Regno delle Due Sicilie, ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti di America, a fine di porre un termine alle reclamazioni avanzate dal dette Governo, per le prede recate al commercio Americano, da Murat negli anni 1809, 1810, 1811 e 1812 .
SUA Maestà il Re del Regno delle Due Sicilie, ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti di America, desiderando di porre finalmente un termine, alle reclamazioni avanzate dal detto Governo, presso la Maestà Sua, perche i negozianti di essi Stati fossero rifatti delle perdite, recate loro da Murat, per le prede, sequestro confische, e distruzione dei bastimenti, e dei carichi de loro proprietá, negli anni 1809, 1810 , 1811 e 1812, e volendo con cio vieppiu stringere la Maestà Sua col cennato Governo degli Stati Uniti i legami di buona armonia non mai turbata per lo addietro, la prelodata Maestà Sua il Re del Regno delle Due Sicilie, ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti hanno concordemente risoluto di venire ad un aggiustamento, a terminare il quale hanno nominati, e muniti delle necessarie Plenipotenze, cioe :
Sua Maestà il Re del Regno delle Due Sicilie, Sua Eccelenza D. Antonio Maria Statella Principe di Cassaro, Marchese di Spaccaforno, Conte Statella, & c. & c.: ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti di America il Signor Giovanni Nelson, Suo Incaricato di Affari presso questa Real Corte ; i quali dopo il cambio delle respettive loro Plenipotenze, e queste trovate in buona e debita forma hanno convenuto dei seguenti Articoli :
ARTICOLO 1°. Sua Maestà il Re del Regno delle Due Sicilie ad oggetto di far tacere le succennate reclamazioni per le prede, sequestro, confische, e distruzione dei bastimenti e dei carichi dei negozianti degli Stati Uniti recate da Murat, negli anni 1809, 1810 , 1811 e 1812 ( e per qualunque altra spesa incidente o derivante dalle anzidette cagioni ) si obbliga di pagare la somma di Ducati Napolitani, due milioni cento quindici mila, al Governo degli Stati Uniti ; cioe, settemila seicento settanta nove Ducati , a titolo di rimborso al detto Governo, per ispese da esso fatte per trasporto di diversi marineri Americani nell' anno 1810 , dal Regno di Napoli nell' America, ed il remanente da dividersi ai reclamanti dal succennato Governo degli Stati Uniti, nel modo, e secondo che esso stimera opportuno di determinare.
ARTICOLO 2º. La Somma dei due milioni cento quindici mila Ducati Napolitani , convenuta nell Articolo 1 ° . sara sodisfatta in Napoli , in nove rate equali, ciascuna de Ducati dugento trenta cinque mila, coll' interesse a scalare del quattro per cento, da percepirsi dall' epoca del cambio delle ratifiche di questa Convenzione, sino all' estinzione dell' intesa somma. Il primo pagamento sara fatto dodici mesi dopo il cambio di dette ratifiche, ed i rimanenti successivamente un anno dopo
(443)

444

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

said ratifications, and the remaining instalments, with the interest, suc cessively, one year after another. The said payments shall be made in Naples into the hands of such person as shall be duly authorized by the Government of the United States to receive the same.

Ratifications to ARTICLE 3d. The present convention shall be ratified and the ratifi-

be exchanged within eight

cations thereof shall be exchanged in this capital, in the space of eight

months.

months from this date or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof the parties above named have respectively subscribed these articles, and thereto affixed their seals. Done at Naples on
the 14th day of October one thousand eight hundred and thirty two.

JNO. NELSON, (L. s. )

Dec. 1832. 18

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. (a)

Ratifications exchanged , May 11, 1833. Proclamation of the President of the U. S.,
May 11, 1833.

In the name of the most Holy and Indivisible Trinity : The United States of America, and his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, equally animated with the desire of maintaining the relations of good understanding, which have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective States, and of extending and consolidating the commercial intercourse between them, have agreed to enter into nego-

tiations for the conclusion of a treaty of navigation and commerce : For which purpose the President of the United States has conferred full

powers on James Buchanan, their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister

Plenipotentiary near his Imperial Majesty ; and his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias has conferred like powers on the Sieur Charles Robert Count de Nesselrode, his Vice Chancellor, Knight of the Orders of

Russia, and of many others, & c.: and the said Plenipotentiaries having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, have concluded and signed the following articles :-

Liberty of
commerce and navigation .

ARTICLE I. There shall be between the territories of the High Contracting Parties, a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. The inhabitants of their respective States shall, mutually, have liberty to enter the ports, places, and rivers of the territories of each party, whereever foreign commerce is permitted . They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories, in order to attend to their affairs, and they shall enjoy, to that effect, the same security and protection as natives of the country wherein they reside, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing, and par-

ticularly to the regulations in force concerning commerce.

Tonnage duties reciprocally on the footing of the most favored nation.

ARTICLE II. Russian vessels arriving either laden or in ballast, in
the ports of the United States of America ; and reciprocally, vessels of the United States arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the ports of the Empire of Russia, shall be treated, on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels, coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage. In regard to light-house duties, pilotage, and port charges, as well as tothe fees and perquisites of public officers, and all other duties and charges,

(a) For notes of the treaties between the United States and Russia, see ante, page 302.

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

445

l'altro. Questi pagamenti saranno fatti in Napoli nelle mani di chi sara all uopo autorizato dal Governo degli Stati Uniti.

ARTICOLO 3°. La presente Convenzione sará ratificata e le ratifiche saranno cambiate in questa Capitale, nello spazio di otto mesi da questa data, o piu presto se fia possible.
En fede di che, le Parti di sopra accennate, hanno rispettivamente firmato questi Articoli, e vi hanno apposto i loro suggelli,
Data in Napoli a di 14 di Ottobre mille ottocento trenta due. IL PRINCIPE DI CASSARO, (L. S. )

TRAITÉ A RUSSIE.
Au nom de la trés sainte et indivisible Trinité : Les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté L'Empereur de toutes les Russies, également animés du désir de maintenir les rapports de bonne intelligence qui ont si heureusement subsisté jusqu'ici entre leurs Etats respectifs, et d'en étendre et consolider les relations commerciales, sont convenus d'entrer en négociation pour conclure un traité de commerce et de navigation : A cet effet, le Président des Etats Unis a muni de ses pleinspouvoirs le Sieur James Buchanan , Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire des Etats Unis près Sa Majesté Impériale ; et Sa Majesté L'Empereur de toutes les Russies a muni des mêmes pouvoirs, le Sieur Charles Robert Comte de Nesselrode, son Vice Chancelier, Chevalier des Ordres de Russie et de plusieurs autres, & c.: lesquels Plénipotentiaires, après avoir échangé leurs Pleinspouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et signé les articles suivans :-
ARTICLE I. Il y aura entre les territoires des Hautes Parties Contractantes, liberté et réciprocité de commerce et de navigation. Les habitans de leurs Etats respectifs pourront réciproquement entrer dans les ports, places, et rivierès des territoires de chacune d'elles, partout où le commerce étranger est permis. Ils seront libres de s'y arrêter et resider dans quelque partie que ce soit des dits territoires pour y vaquen à leurs affairés ; et ils jouiront à cet effet de la même sécurité et protection que les habitans du pays, dans lequel ils résideront, à charge de se soumettre aux lois et ordonnances y établies, et en particulier aux réglemens de commerce en vigueur.
ARTICLE II. Les bâtimens Russes , arrivant sur lest ou chargés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et réciproquement les bâtimens des Etats Unis arrivant sur lest ou chargés dans les ports de l'Empire de Russie, seront traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour , et à leur sortie, sur le même pied , que les bâtimens nationaux, venant du même lieu, par rapport aux droits de tonnage. Pour ce qui concerne les droits de fanaux, de pilotage et de port, ainsi que les vacations des officiers publics, et tout autre droit ou charge, de quelque espèce ou dénomina-
2N

446

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

of whatever kind or denomination , levied upon vessels of commerce, in the name or to the profit of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, the High Contracting Parties shall reciprocally treat each other upon the footing of the most favored nations with whom they have not treaties now actually in force, regulating the said duties and charges on the basis of an entire reciprocity.

Merchandise

ARTICLE III. All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce,

imported in the which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the Empire of Russia

vessels of either in Russian vessels , may, also, be so imported in vessels of the United

psaubrjteyc,tntoot itno-be States of America, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of creased duties. whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit, of

the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or articles of commerce had

been imported in Russian vessels. And reciprocally, all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, which may be lawfully imported

into the ports of the United States of America, in vessels of the said

States, may, also, be so imported in Russian vessels, without paying

other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination,

levied in the name, or to the profit of the government, the local authori-

ties, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same mer-

chandise or articles of commerce had been imported in vessels of the United States of America.

The same rule
tthoeorbatrariinv,inwghe from their own or from foreign ports.

ARTICLE IV. It is understood that the stipulations contained in the two preceding articles, are, to their full extent, applicable to Russian vessels and their cargoes, arriving in the ports of the United States of America ; and reciprocally, to vessels of the said States and their cargoes, arriving in the ports of the Empire of Russia, whether the said vessels clear directly from the ports of the country to which they respectively belong, or from the ports of any other foreign country.

Merchandise which may be exported in national vessels , may be so in those of either
party.

ARTICLE V. All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, which may be lawfully exported from the ports of the United States of
America in national vessels, may, also, be exported therefrom in Russian vessels without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or articles of commerce, had been exported in vessels of the United States of America. And reciprocally, all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, which may be law-
fully exported from the ports of the Empire of Russia in national vessels, may also be exported therefrom in vessels of the United States of
America, without paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination , levied in the name, or to the profit of the govern-
ment, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or articles of commerce had been exported in Russian vessels.

No higher du. ARTICLE VI. No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the im-

ties shall be importation into the United States, of any article, the produce or manu-

posed than on the same arti-

facture of Russia ; and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on

cles from other the importation into the Empire of Russia, of any article, the produce

countries.

or manufacture of the United States, than are, or shall be, payable on

All prohibitions shall be general.

the like article, being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the importation or exportation of any article the produce or manufacture of the United States or of Russia, to, or from the ports of the United States, or to, or

from the ports of the Russian Empire, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832 .

447

tion que ce soit, perçus des bâtimens de commerce, au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, les Hautes Parties Contractantes se traiteront réciproquement sur le pied des nations les plus favorisées avec lesquelles elles n'ont pas de traité actuellement en vigueur, qui règle les dits droits et
charges sur la base d'une entière réciprocité.
ARTICLE III . Toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce qui pourront légalement être importés dans les ports de l'Empire de Russie sur des bâtimens Russes, pourront également y être importés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que s'ils étaient importés sur des bâtimens Russes. Et réciproquement, tout espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce qui pourront légalement être importés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique sur les bâtimens des dits Etats, pourront également y être importés sur des bâtimens Russes, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que s'ils étaient importés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique.

ARTICLE IV. Il est entendu que les stipulations contenues dans les deux articles précédens, sont, dans toute leur plénitude , applicables aux bâtimens Russes et leurs cargaisons, arrivant dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amerique ; et réciproquement aux bâtimens des dits Etats et leurs cargaisons, arrivant dans les ports de l'Empire de Russie, soit que les dits bâtimens viennent des ports du pays, auquel ils appartiennent, soit de ceux de tout autre pays étranger.
ARTICLE V. Toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce, qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique sur des bâtimens nationaux, pourront également en être exportés sur des bâtimens Russes, sans payer d'autres ni de plus forts droits, ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus, au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que si ces mêmes marchandises ou denrées étaient exportées par des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique. Et réciproquement, toute espèce de marchandise et objets de commerce qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports de l'Empire de Russie, sur des bâtimens nationaux, pourront êgalement en étre exportés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que si ces marchandises ou denrées étaient exportées sur des bâtimens Russes.
ARTICLE VI. Il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans les Etats Unis des articles, provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de l'Empire de Russie ; et il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans l'Empire de Russie, des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, que ceux qui sont ou seront imposés sur les mêmes articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de tout autre pays étranger. De même, il ne sera imposé sur l'importation ou sur l'exportation des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis ou de l'Empire de Russie, à l'entrée ou à la sortie des ports des Etats Unis , ou de ceux de l'Empire de Russie, aucune prohibition, qui ne soit pas également applicable à toute autre nation .

448

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

Coasting trade ARTICLE VII. It is expressly understood that the preceding articles

excepted.

II, III, IV, V, and VI, shall not be applicable to the coastwise naviga-

tion of either of the two countries, which each of the High Contracting

Parties reserves exclusively to itself.

Consuls, & c.

ARTICLE VIII. The two Contracting Parties shall have the liberty

Their authority of having in their respective ports, Consuls, Vice Consuls, agents and

commissaries, of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same pri-

vileges and powers, as those of the most favored nations ; but if any such Consul shall exercise commerce, they shall be submitted to the

same laws and usages to which the private individuals of their nation are submitted, in the same place.

Consuls, & c. to judge and arbitrate in certain cases.
1846, ch. 105.

The Consuls, Vice Consuls, and commercial Agents, shall have the right, as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or of

the captain, should disturb the order or the tranquillity of the country, or the said Consuls, Vice Consuls, or Commercial Agents should re-

quire their assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into effect

or supported. It is, however, understood, that this species of judgment

or arbitration shall not deprive the contending parties of the right they

have to resort, on their return, to the judicial authority of their country.

Consuls, & c.
amsasiysrteanqcueiroeftthhee local authorities to arrest deserters.

ARTICLE IX. The said Consuls, Vice Consuls and Commercial Agents, are authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities, for the search, arrest, detention and imprisonment of the deserters from the
ships of war and merchant vessels of their country. For this purpose they shall apply to the competent tribunals, judges and officers, and shall,

in writing, demand said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the

registers of the vessels, the rolls of the crews, or by other official docu-

ments, that such individuals formed part of the crews ; and this reclama-

Deserters to be sent back within four months.

tion being thus substantiated, the surrender shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested, shall be placed at the disposal of the
said Consuls, Vice Consuls, or Commercial Agents, and may be confined in the public prisons, at the request and cost of those who shall claim them, in order to be detained until the time when they shall be

restored to the vessels to which they belonged , or sent back to their own country by a vessel of the same nation or any other vessel whatsoever.

But if not sent back within four months, from the day of their arrest,

they shall be set at liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause .

However, if the deserter should be found to have committed any crime

or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the tribunal before which

his case shall be depending, shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.

Succession to
personal estate, and disposal thereof.

ARTICLE X. The citizens and subjects of each of the High Contracting Parties shall have power to dispose of their personal goods within
the jurisdiction of the other, by testament, donation , or otherwise, and their representatives, being citizens or subjects of the other party, shall

succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others

acting for them, and dispose of the same, at will, paying to the profit of the respective governments, such dues only as the inhabitants of the

country wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.

And in case of the absence of the representative , such care shall be

taken of the said goods, as would be taken of the goods of a native of

the same country in like case, until the lawful owner may take measures

for receiving them. And if a question should arise among several

TREATY WITH RUSSIA . 1832.

449

ARTICLE VII. Il est expressemént entendu que les articles précédens II, III, IV, V et VI, ne sont point applicables à la navigation de côte ou cabotage de chacun des deux pays, que l'une et l'autre des Hautes Parties Contractantes se réservent exclusivement.

ARTICLE VIII. Les deux Parties Contractantes auront la faculté
d'avoir dans leurs ports respectifs des Consuls, Vice Consuls, Agens et Commissaires de leur choix, qui jouiront des mêmes privilèges et pouvoirs dont jouissent ceux des nations les plus favorisées ; mais dans le cas où les dits Consuls veulent faire le commerce, ils seront soumis aux mêmes lois et usages, auxquels sont soumis les particuliers de leur nation à l'endroit où ils resident.
Les Consuls, Vice Consuls et Agens Commerciaux auront le droit, comme tels, de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les différends qui pourraient s'élever entre les capitaines et les équipages des bâtimens de la nation, dont ils soignent les intérêts sans que les autorités locales puissent y intervenir, à moins que la conduite des équipages, ou du capitaine ne troublât l'ordre ou la tranquillité du pays, ou que les dits Consuls, Vice Consuls ou Agens Commerciaux, ne réquissent leur intervention pour faire exécuter ou maintenir leurs décisions ; bien entendu que cette espèce de jugement ou d'arbitrage ne saurait pourtant priver les parties contendantes du droit qu'elles ont à leurs retour, de recourir aux autorités judiciaires de leur pays.

ARTICLE IX. Les dits Consuls, Vice Consuls ou Agens Commerciaux sont autorisés à réquérir l'assistance des autorités locales pour la recherche, l'arrestation, la détention et l'imprisonnement des déserteurs, des navires de guerre et marchands de leur pays, ils s'adresseront pour cet objèt aux tribunaux, juges et officiers compétens, et réclameront par écrit, les déserteurs susmentionnés, prouvant par la communication des régistres de navires, ou rôles de l'équipage, ou par d'autres documens officiels, que de tels individus, ont fait partie des dits équipages, et cette réclamation ainsi prouvée, l'extradition ne sera point refusée.
De tels déserteurs, lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés, seront mis à la disposition des dits Consuls, Vice Consuls ou Agens Commerciaux, et pourront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques, à la réquisition et aux frais de ceux qui les réclamant, pour être détenus jusqu'au moment, où ils seront rendus aux navires, auxquels ils appartenaient, ou renvoyés dans leur patrie par un bâtiment de la même nation ou un autre bâtiment quelconque. Mais s'ils ne sont pas renvoyés dans l'éspace de quatre mois, à compter du jour de leur arrestation, ils seront mis en liberté et ne seront plus arretés pour la même cause.
Toutefois, si le déserteur se trouvait avoir commis quelque crime ou délit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition jusqu'à ce que le tribunal nanti de l'affaire, aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.

ARTICLE X. Les citoyens et sujets de chacune des Hautes Parties

Contractantes auront dans les états de l'autre , la liberté de disposer de

leurs biens personnels, soit par testament, donation ou autrement ; et

leurs héritiers, étant citoyens ou sujets de l'autre Partie Contractante,

succéderont à leurs biens, soit en vertu d'un testament , soit ab intestato,

et ils pourront en prendre possession , soit en personne, soit par d'autres

agissant en leur place, et en disposeront à volonté, en ne payant, au

profit des gouvernemens respectifs, d'autres droits, que ceux, auxquels les habitans du pays où se trouvent les dits biens, sont assujettis en

pareille occasion. En cas d'absence des héritiers, on prendra provisoirement des dits biens les mêmes soins, qu'on aurait pris en pareille occasion des biens des natifs du même pays, jusqu'à ce que le proprié-

taire légitime ait pris des arrangemens pour receuillir l'héritage. S'il

VOL. VIII. 57

2N2

450

TREATY WITH RUSSIA . 1832.

claimants as to which of them said goods belong, the same shall be decided, finally, by the laws and judges of the land wherein the said goods are. And where, on the death of any person holding real estate, within the territories of one of the High Contracting Parties, such real estate would, by the laws of the land, descend on a citizen or subject of the other party, who by reason of alienage may be incapable of holding it, he shall be allowed the time fixed by the laws of the country, and in case the laws of the country actually in force, may not have fixed any such time, he shall then be allowed a reasonable time to sell such real estate and to withdraw and export the proceeds without molestation, and without paying to the profit of the respective governments any other dues than those to which the inhabitants of the country wherein said real estate is situated , shall be subject to pay, in like cases. But this
article shall not derogate, in any manner, from the force of the laws already published, or which may hereafter be published by his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias , to prevent the emigration of his subjects.

Favors granted
to other nations shall become common.

ARTICLE XI. If either party shall, hereafter, grant to any other nation, any particular favor in navigation or commerce, it shall , immediately, become common to the other party, freely, where it is freely granted to such other nation , or on yielding the same compensation, when the grant is conditional.

Treaty to extaennddttoo cPoonltainnude, in force until 1st January 1839.

ARTICLE XII. The present treaty, of which the effect shall extend, in like manner, to the kingdom of Poland , so far as the same may be applicable thereto, shall continue in force until the first day of January,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, and if, one year before that day, one of the High Contracting Parties, shall not have announced to the other, by an official notification, its intention to arrest the operation thereof, this treaty shall remain obligatory one year beyond that day, and so on , until the expiration of the year which shall commence after the date of a similar notification .

Ratifications to
be exchanged within twelve months.

ARTICLE XIII. The present treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said States, and by his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the city of Washington within the space of one year, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty, in duplicate, and affixed thereto the seal of their arms. Done at St. Petersburg the eigshitxetehnth December, in the year of Grace one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two.

JAMES BUCHANAN, (L. s.)

SEPARATE ARTICLE .

Certain special
stipulations not to be invoked.

Certain relations of proximity, and anterior engagements, having rendered it necessary for the Imperial Government to regulate the commercial relations of Russia with Prussia and the kingdoms of Sweden and Norway by special stipulations, now actually in force, and which may be renewed hereafter ; which stipulations are, in no manner, connected with the existing regulations for foreign commerce in general ; the two High Contracting Parties, wishing to remove from their commercial relations every kind of ambiguity or subject of discussion , have

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

451

6 élève des contestations entre les différens prétendans ayant droit à la succession, elles seront décideés en dernier ressort, selon les lois et par les juges du pays où la succession est vacante. Et si, par la mort de quelque personne possédant des biens fond sur le territoire de l'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, ces bien fonds venaient à passer, selon les lois du pays, à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie, et que celui-ci, par sa qualité d'étranger, fût inhabile à les posséder, il jouira du délai fixé par les lois du pays, et dans le cas où les lois du pays actuellement existante n'en fixeraient aucun, il obtiendra un délai convenable pour vendre ces biens-fonds et pour en retirer et exporter le produit sans obstacle et sans payer au profit des gouvernemens respectifs, d'autres droits que ceux auxquels les habitans du pays où se trouve les biens-fonds, sont assujettis en pareille occasion. Mais cet article ne derogera en aucune manière à la force des lois qui ont déjà été publiées, ou qui pourraient l'être par la suite, par Sa Majesté L'Empereur de toutes les Russies, pour prévenir l'émigration de ses sujets.

ARTICLE XI. Si l'une des Parties Contractantes accorde par la suite à d'autres nations quelque faveur particulière en fait de commerce ou de navigation, cette faveur deviendra aussitôt commune à l'autre partie, qui en jouira gratuitement, si la concession est gratuite, ou en accordant la même compensation, si la concession est conditionelle.
ARTICLE XII. Le présent traité dont l'éffet s'étendra également au Royaume de Pologne, pour autant qu'il peut lui être applicable, restera en vigueur jusqu'au premier Janvier de l'an de Grâce 1839, et si un an avant ce terme, l'une des Hautes Parties Contractantes, n'avait pas annoncé à l'autre, par une notification officielle, son intention d'en faire cesser l'éffet, ce traité restera obligatoire une année au delà et ainsi de suite, jusqu'à l'expiration de l'année qui commencera après la date d'une semblable notification.

ARTICLE XIII . Le présent traité sera approuvé et ratifié par le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat des dits Etats, et par Sa Majesté L'Empereur de toutes les Russies ; et les ratifications en seront échangeés en la ville de Washington dans l'espace d'un an, ou plutôt si faire se peut..

En foi de quoi , les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent traité en duplicata, et y ont apposé le cachet de leurs armes. Fait à Saint Petersbourg leduixihutit Décembre l'an de grace mil-huit centtrente-deux .
CHARLES COMTE DE NESSELRODE, (L. S.)

ARTICLE SÉPARÉ .
Des rapports de voisinage et des engagemens antérieurs, ayant mis le Gouvernement Impérial dans le cas de régler les relations commerciales de la Russie avec la Prusse, et les Royaumes de Suède et de Norvège, par des stipulations spéciales, actuellement en vigueur, et qui pourront être renouvelées dans la suite, sans que les dites stipulations soient liées aux réglemens existans pour le commerce étranger en général, les deux Hautes Parties Contractantes, voulant écarter de leurs relations commerciales toute espèce d'équivoque ou de motif de discus-

452

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

agreed, that the special stipulations granted to the commerce of Prussia, and of Sweden and Norway, in consideration of equivalent advantages granted in these countries, by the one to the commerce of the kingdom of Poland, and by the other to that of the Grand Dutchy of Finland, shall not, in any case, be invoked in favor of the relations of commerce and navigation, sanctioned between the two High Contracting Parties by the present treaty.
The present separate article shall have the same force and value as if it were inserted, word for word, in the treaty signed this day, and shall be ratified at the same time.
In faith whereof, we, the undersigned, by virtue of our respective full powers, have signed the present separate article, and affixed thereto the seals of our arms.
sixth Done at Saint Petersburg, the eighteenth of December, in the year of
Grace one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two.
JAMES BUCHANAN, (L. 8.)

TREATY WITH RUSSIA. 1832.

453

sion, sont tombées d'accord, que ces stipulations spéciales accordées au commerce de la Prusse, de la Suède et de la Norvège, en considération d'advantages équivalens , accordés dans ces pays, d'une part au commerce du Royaume de Pologne, de l'autre à celui du Grand Duché de Finlande, ne pourront dans aucun cas être invoquées en faveur des relations de commerce et de navigation , sanctionnées entre les deux Hautes Parties Contractantes par le présent traité.
Le présent article séparé aura la même force et valeur que s'il était inséré mot à mot dans le traité signé aujourd'hui , et sera ratifié en même temps.
En foi de quoi, nous, soussignés, en vertu de nos pleinspouvoirs respectifs, avons signé le présent article séparé, et y avons apposé le cachet de nos armes.
Fait à Saint Pétersbourg le ddixihutit Décembre, l'an de Grace mil-huitcent-trente-deux.

CHARLES COMTE DE NESSELRODE, (L. s.)

TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE

March 20, 1833. Between his Majesty the Magnificent King of Siam, and

Proclamation of the President of the U.S., June 24, 1837.
Ratifications
exchanged at Bankok, April 14, 1836.

the United States of America :
His Majesty the Sovereign and Magnificent King, in the City of SiaYut'hia, has appointed the Chau Phaya-Phra-klang, one of the first Ministers of State, to treat with Edmund Roberts, Minister of the United States of America, who has been sent by the Government thereof, on

its behalf, to form a treaty of sincere friendship and entire good faith

between the two nations. For this purpose, the Siamese and the citi-

zens of the United States of America shall , with sincerity, hold com-

mercial intercourse in the ports of their respective nations as long as Heaven and Earth shall endure.

Treaty concluded March 20. 1833.
Siam will ratify the treaty if the U. S. do .

This treaty is concluded on Wednesday, the last of the fourth month of the year 1194, called Pi-marông-chat-tava-sôk, (or the year of the Dragon,) corresponding to the twentieth day of March, in the year of our Lord 1833. One original is written in Siamese, the other in English ; but as the Siamese are ignorant of English, and the Americans of Siamese, a Portuguese and a Chinese translation are annexed, to serve as testimony to the contents of the treaty. The writing is of the same tenor and date in all the languages aforesaid : It is signed, on the one part, with the name of the Chau P'haya P'hra-klang, and sealed with the seal of the lotus flower, of glass ; on the other part, it is signed with the name of Edmund Roberts, and sealed with a seal containing an eagle and stars.
One copy will be kept in Siam, and another will be taken by Edmund Roberts to the United States. If the Government of the United States
shall ratify the said treaty, and attach the seal of the Government, then Siam will also ratify it on its part, and attach the seal of its Government.

Perpetual peace.

ARTICLE 1. There shall be a perpetual peace between the United States of America and the Magnificent King of Siam.

Citizens of tUo.eSn.teart tlhieberty ports of Siam with their cargoes, & c.
Proviso.

ART. 2. The citizens of the United States shall have free liberty to enter all the ports of the Kingdom of Siam , with their cargoes, of whatever kind the said cargoes may consist ; and they shall have liberty to sell the same to any of the subjects of the King, or others who may wish to purchase the same, or to barter the same for any produce or manufacture of the Kingdom, or other articles that may be found there. No prices shall be fixed by the officers of the King on the articles to be sold by the merchants of the United States, or the merchandise they may wish to buy, but the trade shall be free on both sides, to sell, or buy, or exchange, on the terms and for the prices the owners may think fit. Whenever the said citizens of the United States shall be ready to
depart, they shall be at liberty so to do, and the proper officers shall furnish them with passports : Provided always, There be no legal impediment to the contrary. Nothing contained in this article shall be
understood as granting permission to import and sell munitions of war to any person excepting to the King, who, if he does not require, will not be bound to purchase them ; neither is permission granted to import opium, which is contraband ; or to export rice, which cannot be embarked as an article of commerce. These only are prohibited.
(454)

TREATY WITH SIAM. 1833.

455

ART. 3. Vessels of the United States entering any port within his Duties payable Majesty's dominions, and selling or purchasing cargoes of merchandise, bthyevUes.sSels of shall pay, in lieu of import and export duties, tonnage, license to trade, or any other charge whatever, a measurement duty only, as follows : The measurement shall be made from side to side, in the middle of the

vessel's length ; and, if a single decked vessel, on such single deck : if

otherwise, on the lower deck. On every vessel selling merchandise,

the sum of one thousand seven hundred Ticals, or Bats, shall be paid for every Siamese fathom in breadth, so measured ; the said fathom

being computed to contain seventy-eight English or American inches, corresponding to ninety-six Siamese inches ; but if the said vessel should

come without merchandise, and purchase a cargo with specie only, she shall then pay the sum of fifteen hundred Ticals, or Bats, for each and every fathom before described. Furthermore, neither the aforesaid
measurement duty, nor any other charge whatever, shall be paid by any vessel of the United States that enters a Siamese port for the purpose of refitting, or for refreshments, or to inquire the state of the market.

No duties pay
able by vessels entering to refit, &c.

ART. 4. If hereafter the duties payable by foreign vessels be dimin- Diminution of ished in favour of any other nation, the same diminution shall be made duties. in favour of the vessels of the United States.

ART. 5. If any vessel of the United States shall suffer shipwreck on Assistance in any part ofthe magnificent King's dominions, the persons escaping from case of wreck. the wreck shall be taken care of and hospitably entertained at the expense of the King, until they shall find an opportunity to be returned to their country ; and the property saved from such wreck shall be carefully preserved and restored to its owners ; and the United States will repay all expenses incurred by his Majesty on account of such wreck.

ART. 6. If any citizen of the United States, coming to Siam for the Settlement of purpose of trade, shall contract debts to any individual of Siam, or if debts contractany individual of Siam shall contract debts to any citizen of the United ed in Siam.
States, the debtor shall be obliged to bring forward and sell all his goods to pay his debts therewith. When the product of such bona fide sale shall not suffice, he shall no longer be liable for the remainder, nor shall the creditor be able to retain him as a slave, imprison, flog, or otherwise
punish him, to compel the payment of any balance remaining due, but shall leave him at perfect liberty.

ART. 7. Merchants of the United States coming to trade in the king-
dom of Siam, and wishing to rent houses therein, shall rent the King's factories, and pay the customary rent of the country. If the said merchants bring their goods on shore, the King's officers shall take account thereof, but shall not levy any duty thereupon.

Merchants of U.S. to rent the k&incg.'s factories,

ART. 8. If any citizens of the United States, or their vessels, or other property, shall be taken by pirates and brought within the dominions of the magnificent King, the persons shall be set at liberty, and the property restored to its owners.

Citizens ofthe
U. S. taken by pirates to beset at liberty, & c.

ART. 9. Merchants of the United States trading in the kingdom of Merchants of

Siam shall respect and follow the laws and customs of the country in U. S. to respect

all points.

the laws, & c.

ART. 10. If hereafter any foreign nation other than the Portuguese
shall request and obtain his Majesty's consent to the appointment of consuls to reside in Siam, the United States shall be at liberty to appoint consuls to reside in Siam, equally with such other foreign nation.

Appointment of consuls.

EDMUND ROBERTS , (L. s.)

456

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1833.

WHEREAS the undersigned, Edmund Roberts, a citizen of Ports mouth, in the State of New Hampshire, in the United States of America, being duly appointed an envoy, by letters patent, under the signature of the President and seal of the United States of America, bearing date at the city of Washington, the twenty-sixth day of January, A. D.
1832, for negotiating and concluding a treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America and his Majesty the King of Siam :

Final ratifica
ttihoenPrreesseirdveendt,to & c.

Now know ye, that I, Edmund Roberts, envoy as aforesaid, do con-
clude the foregoing treaty of amity and commerce, and every article and clause therein contained ; reserving the same, nevertheless, for the final ratification of the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said United States.

Done at the royal city of Sia-Yut'hia, (commonly called Bankok, ) on the twentieth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, and of the independence of the United States of America the fifty-seventh.

EDMUND ROBERTS, (L. s.)

AN ADDITIONAL AND EXPLANATORY CONVENTION

Sept. 1, 1833.
Proclamation of the President of the U.S., April 29, 1834.

To the treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation concluded in the city of Santiago on the 16th day of May 1832 between the United States of America and the Republick of Chile.

Foregoing treaty to be car ried into effect, although, &c.
Ante. p. 434.

Whereas, the time stipulated in the treaty of amity, commerce and navigation between the United States of America and the Republick of Chile, signed at the city of Santiago on the 16th day of May 1832, for
the exchange of ratifications in the City of Washington, has elapsed ; and it being the wish of both the contracting parties that the aforesaid treaty should be carried into effect with all the necessary solemnities, and that the necessary explanations should be mutually made to remove all subject of doubt in the sense of some of its articles, the undersigned plenipotentiaries, viz., John Hamm, a citizen of the United States of America, and their Chargé d'Affaires, on the part, and in the name of the United States of America,-and Señor Don Andros Bello, a citizen of Chile, on the part, and in the name of the Republick of Chile, having compared and exchanged their full powers, as expressed in the treaty itself, have agreed upon the following additional and explanatory articles.

Stipulation of the 2d article, how to be understood .

ARTICLE I. It being stipulated by the second article of the aforesaid treaty, that the relations and conventions which now exist, or may hereafter exist, between the Republick of Chile and the Republick of Bolivia, the Federation of the Centre of America, the Republick of Columbia, the United States of Mexico, the Republick of Peru, or the United Provinces of the Rio de la Plata, are not included in the prohibition of granting particular favors to other nations which may not be made common to the one or the other of the contracting powers ;-and these exceptions being founded upon the intimate connexion and iden-

CONVENTION WITH CHILE. 1833 .

457

tity of feelings and interests of the new American States, which were members of the same political body under the Spanish dominion, it is mutually understood, that these exceptions will have all the latitude
which is involved in their principle ; and that they will accordingly comprehend all the new nations within the ancient territory of Spanish America, whatever alterations may take place in their constitutions, names, or boundaries, so as to include the present States of Uraguay and Paraguay, which were formerly parts of the ancient vice-royalty of Buenos Ayres, those of New Granada, Venezuela, and Equador in the Republick of Columbia, and any other States which may in future be dismembered from those now existing.

ARTICLE II. It being agreed by the tenth article of the aforesaid Explanatory treaty, that the citizens of the United States of America, personally or plartoivnigsitoontshreeby their agents, shall have the right of being present at the decisions 10th article. and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which may concern them, and at the examination of witnesses and declarations that may be taken in their trials ;--and as the strict enforcement of this article may be in opposition to the established forms of the present due administration of justice, it is mutually understood, that the Republick of Chile is only bound by the aforesaid stipulation to maintain the most perfect equality in this respect between American and Chilean citizens, the former to enjoy all the rights and benefits of the present or future provisions which the laws grant to the latter in their judicial tribunals, but no special favors or privileges.

ARTICLE III. It being agreed by the twenty-ninth article of the afore-
said treaty that, deserters from the publick and private vessels of either party are to be restored thereto by the respective consuls- and whereas, it is declared by the article one hundred and thirty-two of the present constitution of Chile that, "there are no slaves in Chile ;" and, that, "slaves touching the territory of the Republick are free"-it is likewise mutually understood, that the aforesaid stipulation shall not comprehend slaves serving under any denomination on board the publick or private ships of the United States of America.

Slaves not to be comprehendeardtiicnlet.he 29th

ARTICLE IV. It is further agreed, that the ratifications of the afore- Ratifications te
said treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, and of the present be exchanged additional and explanatory convention, shall be exchanged in the City wmiotnhtihnse.ight ofWashington within the term of eight months, to be counted from the
date of the present convention. This additional and explanatory convention, upon its being duly rati-
fied by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the President of the Republick of Chile, with the consent and approbation of the Congress of the same, and the respective ratifications mutually exchanged, shall be added to, and make a part of, the treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, between the United States of America and the Republick of Chile, signed on the said 16th day of May, 1832, having the same force and effect as if it had been inserted word for word in the aforesaid treaty.

In faith whereof, we, the undersigned plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and the Republick of Chile, have signed by virtue of our powers, the aforesaid additional and explanatory convention, and have caused to be affixed our hands and seals, respectively.
Done in the city of Santiago this 1st day of September 1833 ;-and in the 58th year of the independence of the United States of America, and the 24th of the Republick of Chile.

VOL. VIII. 58

JNO. HAMM. ANDRES BELLO.
20

(L. S.) (L. S. )

A TREATY OF AMITY AND COMMERCE

Sept. 21 , 1833.
Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., June 24, 1837.

Between Seyed cies :

the United States Syeed Bin, Sultan

of America and his Majesty of Muscat, and his dependen-

Perpetual peace.

ARTICLE 1. There shall be a perpetual peace between the United States of America and Seyed Syeed Bin , Sultan, and his dependencies.

Citizens of

ART. 2. The citizens of the United States shall have free liberty to

U. S. may enter enter all the ports of his Majesty Seyed Syeed Bin , Sultan, with their

all the ports of the Sultan with

cargoes, of whatever kind the said cargoes may consist ;

and they shall

their cargoes, have liberty to sell the same to any of the subjects of the Sultan, or

& c.

others who may wish to buy the same, or to barter the same for any

produce or manufactures of the kingdom, or other articles that may be

found there. No price shall be fixed by the Sultan, or his officers, on

the articles to be sold by the merchants of the United States, or the

merchandise they may wish to purchase ; but the trade shall be free on both sides to sell or buy, or exchange, on the terms and for the prices the owners may think fit : and whenever the said citizens of the United

States may think fit to depart, they shall be at liberty so to do ; and if any officer of the Sultan shall contravene this article, he shall be severely

punished. It is understood and agreed, however, that the articles of muskets, powder, and ball can only be sold to the Government in the

island of Zanzibar ; but, in all the other ports of the Sultan, the said

munitions of war may be freely sold, without any restrictions whatever,

to the highest bidder.

Duties payable by vessels of the U.S.

ART. 3. Vessels of the United States entering any port within the Sultan's dominions shall pay no more than five per cent. duties on the cargo landed ; and this shall be in full consideration of all import and export duties, tonnage, license to trade, pilotage, anchorage, or any other charge whatever nor shall any charge be paid on that part of the cargo which may remain on board unsold and re-exported : nor shall any charge whatever be paid on any vessel of the United States which
may enter any of the ports of his Majesty for the purpose of refitting, or for refreshments, or to inquire the state of the market.

Americans to pay no other duties, & c.

ART. 4. The American citizen shall pay no other duties on export or
import, tonnage, license to trade, or other charge whatsoever, than the nation the most favoured shall pay.

Assistance to

ART. 5. If any vessel of the United States shall suffer shipwreck on

shipwrecked any part of the Sultan's dominions , the persons escaping from the wreck

vessels of U.S. shall be taken care of and hospitably entertained, at the expense of the

Sultan , until they shall find an opportunity to be returned to their coun-

try, (for the Sultan can never receive any remuneration whatever for

rendering succour to the distressed ; ) and the property saved from such wreck shall be carefully preserved and delivered to the owner, or the consul of the United States, or to any authorized agent.

American mer-
chants residing in ports of the Sultan, not to be taxed.

ART. 6. The citizens of the United States resorting to the ports of the Sultan for the purpose of trade shall have leave to land and reside
in the said ports without paying any tax or imposition whatever for such liberty, other than the general duties on imports which the most favoured aution shall pay.

(458

TREATY WITH MUSCAT. 1833.

459

ART. 7. If any citizens of the United States, or their vessels, or other property, shall be taken by pirates and brought within the dominions of
the Sultan, the persons shall be set at liberty, and the property restored to the owner, if he is present, or to the American consul, or to any authorized agent.

Citizens of
U. S. taken by pirates to be set at liberty, & c.

ART. 8. Vessels belonging to the subjects of the Sultan, which may Vessels of the resort to any port in the United States, shall pay no other or higher Sultan to pay rate of duties or other charges than the nation the most favoured shall no higher duties
in U. S., & c. pay.
ART. 9. The President of the United States may appoint consuls to President of reside in the ports of the Sultan where the principal commerce shall be U. S. may apcarried on, which consuls shall be the exclusive judges of all disputes p&oicn.tTchoenisruldsu,. or suits wherein American citizens shall be engaged with each other. ties, &c. They shall have power to receive the property of any American citizen dying within the kingdom, and to send the same to his heirs, first paying all his debts due to the subjects of the Sultan. The said consuls shall not be arrested, nor shall their property be seized , nor shall any of their household be arrested, but their persons and property, and their houses, shall be inviolate. Should any consul, however, commit any offence against the laws ofthe kingdom, complaint shall be made to the President, who will immediately displace him.

Concluded, signed, and sealed at the Royal Palace, in the city of Muscat, in the kingdom of Aman , the twenty-first day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three of the Christian era, and the fifty-seventh year of the Independence of the United States of America, corresponding to the sixth day of the moon, called Iamada Alawel, in the year of the Allhajra (Hegira) one thousand two hundred and forty-nine.
EDMUND ROBERTS , (L. s.)

WHEREAS , the undersigned, Edmund Roberts, a citizen of the United States of America, and a resident of Portsmouth, in the State of New Hampshire, being duly appointed a special agent by letters patent, under the signature of the President, and seal of the United States of America, bearing date at the City of Washington , the twenty-sixth day of January, Anno Domini one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, for negotiating and concluding a treaty of amity and commerce between the United States of America, and His Majesty Seyed Syeed Bin, Sultan of Muscat :

Now, know ye, that I, Edmund Roberts, special agent as aforesaid, do conclude the foregoing treaty of amity and commerce, and every article and clause therein contained, reserving the same nevertheless for the final ratification of the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States.

Final ratificatPiroensriedseenrtvUed.fSo.r

Done at the Royal Palace, in the City of Muscat, in the Kingdom of Aman, on the twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the fifty- seventh, corresponding to the sixth day of the moon , called Iamada Alawel , in the year of Allhajra ( Hegira) one thousand two hundred and fortynine.

(Signed)

EDMUND ROBERTS.

CONVENTION

Feb. 17, 1834. For the settlement of Claims between the United States of

Proclamation of the President of the U. S., Nov. 1, 1834.
Ratifications exchanged at Madrid, Aug. 14, 1834.

America and her Catholic Majesty.
THE Government of the United States of America, and her Majesty the Queen Regent, Governess of Spain during the minority of her august daughter, Her Catholic Majesty Donna Ysabel II, from a desire of adjusting by a definitive arrangement the claims preferred by each party against the other, and thus removing all grounds of disagreement,

as also of strengthening the ties of friendship and good understanding

which happily subsist between the two nations, have appointed for this purpose, as their respective plenipotentiaries, namely : the President of

the United States, Cornelius P. Van Ness, a citizen of the said States,

and their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near Her

Catholic Majesty Donna Ysabel II ; and her Majesty the Queen Regent,

in the name and behalf of Her Catholic Majesty Donna Ysabel II, his

Excellency Don Jose de Heredia, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal American Order of Ysabel the Catholic, one of Her Majesty's Supreme

Council of Finance, ex-Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, and President of the Royal Junta of Appeals of Credits against France ; who, after having exchanged their respective full powers, have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Agreement by Her Majesty the Queen Regent and Governess, in the name and in

Spain to indem- behalf of Her Catholic Majesty Donna Ysabel II, engages to pay to the

nify U. S.

United States, as the balance on account of the claims aforesaid, the

sum of twelve millions of rials vellon , in one or several inscriptions, as

preferred by the Government of the United States, of perpetual rents,

on the great book of the consolidated debt of Spain, bearing an interest

of five per cent. per annum. Said inscription or inscriptions shall be

issued in conformity with the model or form annexed to this Convention, and shall be delivered in Madrid to such person or persons as may

1836 , ch. 87. 1837, ch. 37.

be authorized by the Government of the United States to receive them , within four months after the exchange of the ratifications. And said inscriptions, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed by the Govern-

ment of the United States among the claimants entitled thereto, in such

manner as it may deem just and equitable.

ARTICLE IL

The interest to The interest of the aforesaid inscription or inscriptions shall be paid
be paid in Paris in Paris every six months, and the first half-yearly payment is to be half- yearly.
made six months after the exchange of the ratifications of this Convention.

ARTICLE III.

All claims cancelled prior to
tchoenvdeantteioonf.this

The high contracting parties, in virtue of the stipulations contained in article first, reciprocally renounce, release, and cancel all claims. which either may have upon the other, of whatever class, denomination, or origin they may be ; from the twenty-second of February, one thou-

sand eight hundred and nineteen, until the time of signing this Convention .

(460)

CONVENIO

Para el arreglo de las reclamaciones entre Su Magestad Catolica y los Estados Unidos de America.
DESEANDO S. M. la Reina Regenta Gobernadora de España, durante la minoridad de Su Magestad Catolica Doña Ysabel 2ª, su augusta hija, y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de America, terminar por un arreglo definitivo las reclamaciones promovidas por una y otra parte, evitando, de esta manera, todo motivo de desavenencia, y estrechando los vinculos de amistad y buena inteligencia que existen felizmente entre ambas nacionnes ; han nombrado con este objeto, por sus respectivos plenipotenciarios, a saber : S. M. la Reina Regenta Gobernadora á nombre y en representacion de .S. M. Catolica Dona Ysabel 2', al Exmo. Señor Don Jose de Heredia, Caballero Grand Cruz de la Real Orden Americana de Ysabel la Catolica, del Consejo de S. M. en el Supremo de Hacienda, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario cesante, y Presidente de la Real Junta de Apelaciones de Creditos contra la Francia ; y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America á Don Cornelio P. Van Ness, ciudadano de dichos Estados , y Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario cerca de S. M. Catolica Doña Ysabel 2 , los cuales despues de haber cangeado sus respectivos plenos poderes, han convenido en los articulos siguientes :
ARTICULO 1º.
S. M. la Reina Regenta Gobernadora, á nombre y en representacion de S. M. Catolica Doña Ysabel 2 , se obliga á pagar á los Estados Unidos por saldo de las reclamaciones arriba mencionadas, la cantidad de doce millones de reales vellon, en una ó varias inscriptiones, á eleccion del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , de renta perpetua sobre el gran libro de la deuda consolidada de España, con el interes de cinco por ciento anual. Esta inscripcion ó inscripciones seran conformes al modelo ó formula de que va unida copia al presente conveoio : y se entregarán en Madrid cuatro meses despues del cange de sus ratificaciones, á la persona ó personas que autorize el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos para recibirlas, el cual distribuirá las expresadas inscripciones, ó su producto entre los reclamantes, que tengan derecho á el, del modo que le parezca mas justo y conveniente.

ARTICULO 2º.

El pago de los intereses de la mencionada ó mencionadas inscripciones se verificará en Paris cada seis meses ; y el primer semestre sera
pagado á los seis meses depues de verificado el cange de las ratificaciones del presente convenio.

ARTICULO 3°.

Las altas partes contratantes, en virtud de lo que se estipula en el articulo primero, renuncian y dan reciprocamente por satisfechas, y

canceladas, todas las reclamaciones sean cual fuere su clase, titulo ú

origen, que cualquiera de las dos, tenga contra la otra, desde el dia veinte y dos de Febrero de mil ochocientos diez y nueve, hasta la fecha de este convenio.

202

(461)

462

CONVENTION WITH SPAIN. 1834.

ARTICLE IV.

List of claims
to be delivered toof tShpeaiMni.nister

On the request of the Minister Plenipotentiary of Her Catholic Majesty at Washington , the Government of the United States will deliver to him, in six months after the exchange of the ratifications of this convention, a note or list of the claims of American citizens against the Government of Spain, specifying their amounts respectively, and three years afterwards, or sooner if possible, authentic copies of all the documents upon which they may have been founded.

ARTICLE V.

Ratifications to This convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall be ex-

be exchanged in six months.

changed, in Madrid, in six months from this time, or sooner if possible.

In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed these articles, and affixed thereto their seals.

Done in Triplicate at Madrid , this seventeenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four.

C. P. VAN NESS,

(L. S.)

JOSE DE HEREDIA, (L. SsS..)

The following is a translation of the form, or model, of the inscription :

No.

Cupon of dollars of rent

payable in Paris

on the

of

183

Cupon No. 1.

Perpetual rent of Spain. Payable in Paris
at the rate of 5 per cent. per annum, inscribed in the great book of the consolidated debt.

This inscription is issued in pursuance of a con-

vention concluded at Madrid on the

day

of

183 between H. C. M. the Queen of Spain,

and the U. S. of America, for the payment of the claims of the citizens of said States.

INSCRIPTION No.

Capital. Dollars
or Francs.

Rent. Dollars or Francs.

The bearer of this is entitled to an annual rent of

dollars or

francs, payable at

Paris every six months, on the

and

of

by the bankers of Spain in that city, rating each

dollar at 5 francs 40 centimes, in conformity with the

royal decree of December 15th, 1825.

Agreeably to said royal decree an appropriation of one per cent. on the nominal value of this rent is

made annually at compound interest for the extinction of

the same, which amount shall be employed by the above-

mentioned bankers in such extinction periodically at the

current rate.

Madrid,

of

183

The Secretary of State and ofthe Department of Finance. The Director of the Royal Caisse d'Amortisation.

In witness whereof we, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries of Her Catholic Majesty the Queen of Spain and of the United States of America, have signed this model, and have affixed thereunto our seals.

Done at Madrid , this

day of

JOSE DE HEREDIA, ( L. s.)

C. P. VAN NESS,

(L. S.)

CONVENTION WITH SPAIN. 1834.

463

ARTICULO 4°.
El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos á peticion del Ministro Plenipotenciario de S. M. Catolica en Washington , le entregará, seis meses despues del cange de las ratificaciones de este convenio, una lista ó nota de las reclamaciones de los ciudadanos Americanos contra el Gobierno de España, con espresion de sus valores, y tres años despues , ó antes si fuese posible, copias autenticas de todos los documentos en que se hayan fundado.
ARTICULO 5º.
El presente convenio sera ratificado, y las ratificaciones cangeadas en esta Corte, en el termino de seis meses contadas desde su fecha, or antes se fuese posible.

En fe de lo cual, los respectivos plenipotenciarios lo han firmado, y sellado con el sello de sus armas.

Fecho por triplicado en Madrid, a diez y siete de Febrero de mil ochocientos treinta y cuatro.

JOSE DE HEREDIA, (L. s.)

C. P. VAN NESS ,

(L. s. )

No.

Cupon de

pedsos fuertes de renta

pagadero en

de

de 183

Cupon No. 1°.

Renta perpetua de Espana, pagadera en Paris
a razon de 5 p. 0-0 al anno, inscrita en el gran libro de la deuda consolidada.

Esta Inscripcion se expide á consecuencia de un con-

venio celebrado en Madrid en

de

de

entre S. M. Catolica la Reina de Espana y los Estados

Unidos de America, para el pago de las reclamaciones de los ciudadanos de dichos Estados.

INSCRIPCION No.

Capital. Pesos fuertes ó sean francos

Renta. Pesos fuertes ó sean francos

El portador de la presente tiene derecho á una

renta anual de

pesos fuertes, ó sea de

francos,

pagaderos en Paris por semestres en los dias de y de por los banqueros de Espana en aquella capital,

á razon de 5 francos y 40 centimos por peso fuerte con arreglo al R.1 decreto de 15 de Diciembre de 1825.
Consiguiente al mismo real decreto se destina cada

ano á la amortizacion de esta renta uno por ciento de su valor nominal, á interes compuesto cuyo importe sera

empleado en su amortizacion periodica al curso corriente

por dichos banqueros.-- Madrid,

de

de

El Secretario de Estado del Despacho de Hacienda.

El Director de la R.l Caja de Amortizacion.

En fé de lo cual, Nos los abajo firmados Plenipotenciarios de S. M.
Catolica la Reyna de España, y de los Estados Unidos de America, hemos firmado la presente formula, y hemos puesto en ella, el séllo de nuestras armas.

Fecho en Madrid a

de

de

JOSE DE HEREDIA, ( L. s.)

C. P. VAN NESS,

(L. S.)

April 3, 1835.

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO.

Ratified April 20; 1836. Proclamation of the President of the U.S.,
April 21, 1836. Ante, p. 372.

A TREATY having been concluded and signed in the city of Mexico, on the 12th day of January, 1823, between the United States of America and the Mexican United States, for the purpose of establishing the true dividing line and boundary between the two nations, the third article of which treaty is as follows : "To fix this line with more precision,

and to place the land marks which shall designate exactly the limits of

both nations, each of the contracting parties shall appoint a commis-

sioner and a surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of one year

from the date of the ratification of this treaty at Natchitoches, on the

Red river, and proceed to run and mark said line from the mouth of the

Sabine to the Red river, and from the Red river to the river Arkansas,

and to ascertain the latitude of the source of said river Arkansas, in

conformity to what is agreed upon and stipulated, and the line of lati-

,tude 42° to the South sea. They shall make out plans, and keep jour-

nals of their proceedings, and the result agreed upon by them shall be
considered as part of this treaty, and shall have the same force as if it were inserted therein. The two Governments will amicably agree re-

specting the necessary articles to be furnished to those persons, and also as to their respective escorts, should such be deemed necessary : And the ratifications of said treaty having been exchanged in the city of Washington, on the fifth day of April, in the year of 1832, but from various causes the contracting parties have been unable to perform the stipulations contained in the above mentioned third article, and the period within which the said stipulations could have been executed, has elapsed :--and both republics being desirous that the said treaty should be carried into effect with all due solemnity, the President of the United States of America has for that purpose fully empowered on his part Anthony Butler, a citizen thereof and Chargé d'Affaires of said States

in Mexico, and the acting President of the United Mexican States having in like manner fully empowered on his part their Excellencies José Maria Gutierrez de Estrada, Secretary of State for Home and Foreign Affairs, and José Mariano Blasco, Secretary of the Treasury ; and the said Plenipotentiaries after having mutually exchanged their full powers, found to be ample and in form, they have agreed and do hereby agree to the following second additional article to the said

Commission-
ers and survey ors to be appointed to run the boundary line.

treaty. Within the space of one year , to be estimated from the date of the
exchange of the ratifications of this said additional article, there shall be appointed by the Government of the United States of America and of the Mexican United States, each a commissioner and surveyor, for the purpose of fixing with more precision the dividing line, and for establishing the land marks of boundary and limits between the two nations, with the exactness stipulated by the third article of the Treaty of Limits, concluded and signed in Mexico on the 12th day of January, 1828, and the ratifications of which were exchanged in Washington city on the 5th day of April, 1832. And the present additional article shall have the same force and effect as if it had been inserted word for word in the
above mentioned treaty of the 12th of January, 1828 , and shall be approved and ratified in the manner prescribed by the constitutions ofthe respective States.
(464)

CONVENIO CON MEXICO .

HABIENDOSE Concluido y firmado en la Ciudad de Mejico á los 12 dias del Mes de Enero de 1828, un Tratado entre los Estados Unidos Mejicanos y los Estados Unidos del Norte, con el fin de establecer la verdadera linea divisoria y los limites entre las dos Naciones ; y habiendose estipulado en el articulo 3° del mencionado Tratado lo siguiente : " Para fijar esta linea con mas precision, y establecer los mojones que señalen con ecsactitud los limites de ambas naciones, nombrará cada una de ellas un Comisario y Geometra que se juntaran antes del termino de un año contado desde la fecha de la ratificacion de este Tratado, en Natchitoches, en las orillas del Rio Rojo, y procederán a señalar y demarcar dicha linea desde la embocadura del Sabina hasta el Rio Rojo y de este hasta el Rio Arkansas, y averiguar con certidumbre el origen del espresado Rio Arkansas, y fijar segun queda estipulado y convenido en este Tratado, la linea que debe seguir desde el grado 42 de latitud hasta el Mar Pacifico. Llevaran diarios y levantaran planos de sus ope-
raciones ; y el resultado convenido por ellos se tendrá por parte de este Tratado y tendra la misma fuerza que si estuviese inserto en el, debiendo convenir amistosamente los dos Gobiernos en el arreglo de cuanto necesiten estos individuos y en la escolta respectiva que deban llevar siempre que se crea necesario." Y habiendose cangeado las ratificaciones del mencionado Tratado en la ciudad de Washington a los 5 dias del mes de Abril del año del Señor 1832, no habiendo podido las partes contratantes cumplir por varias causas las estipulaciones contenidas en el mencionado articulo 3º habiendo espirado el termino dentro del cual debian ejecutarse , y deseando ambas Republicas que el referido Tratado tenga su mas puntual cumplimiento llenandose todas las formalidades necesarias ; el Presidente interino de los Estados Unidos Mejicanos ha revestido con sus plenos poderes para este objeto á los Excelentisimos Señores D. José Maria Gutierrez de Estrada, Secretario de Estado y del despacho de Relaciones interiores y exteriores y D. José Mariano Blasco, Secretario de Estado y del despacho de Hacienda, y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos del Norte al Honorable Señor An-
tonio Butler, encargado de Negocios de aquella Republica en Megico : y los referidos Plenipotenciarios despues de haber cambiado sus plenos poderes que se encontraron en buena y debida forma, han convenido y convienen en el siguiente segundo articulo adicional.
Se prorroga por el espacio de un año contado desde la fecha del cange de las ratificaciones del presente articulo adicional, el termino que para el nombramiento de los comisarios y geometras encargados por los Gobiernos de Megico y de Washington de fijar con mas precision la linea divisoria y establecer los mojones que señalen con ecsactitud los limites de ambas naciones, estableció el articulo 3° del Tratado de Limites concluido y firmado en Megico a los 12 dias del Mes de Enero de 1828 , y cuyas ratificaciones fueron cangeadas en la Ciudad de Washington á los 5 dias del Mes de Abril de 1832. El presente 2° articulo adicional tendrá la misma fuerza y valor que si hubiese insertado palabra por palabra en el Tratado mencionado de 12 de Enero de 1828, y será aprobado y ratificado en los terminos que establecen las Constituciones de los respectivos Estados.

VOL. VIII. 59

(465)

466

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

In faith of which the said Plenipotentiaries have hereunto set their hands and affixed their respective seals.
Done in the city of Mexico on the 3d day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five, in the fifty-ninth
year of the Independence of the United States of America, and of the fifteenth of that of the United Mexican States.

A. BUTLER,

(L. s.)

J. M. GUTIERREZ DE ESTRADA, (L. s.)

JOSE MARIANO BLASCO,

(L. S.)

TREATY OF PEACE, FRIENDSHIP, NAVIGATION AND COMMERCE ,

Jan. 20, 1836. Between the United States of America and the Republic

Ratifications exchanged, May 31, 1836. Proclamation of the President of the U. S., June 20, 1836.
Negotiators.

of Venezuela.
THE United States of America and the Republic of Venezuela, desiring to make lasting and firm the friendship and good understanding which happily prevails between both nations, have resolved to fix, in a manner clear, distinct, and positive, the rules which shall, in future, be religiously observed between the one and the other, by means of a treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation. For this most desirable object, the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on John G. A. Williamson , a citizen of the said States, and their Chargé d'Affaires to the said Republic, and the President of the Republic of Venezuela on Santos Michelena, a citizen of the said Republic, who, after having exchanged their said full powers, in due and proper form, have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE 1.

Peace and friendship.

There shall be a perfect, firm and inviolable peace and sincere friend-

ship between the United States of America and the Republic of Vene-

zuela, in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between

their people and citizens, respectively, without distinction of persons or

places.

ARTICLE 2.

Favors of com. The United States of America and the Republic of Venezuela, demerce to be siring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the
common to both earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all , engage, parties.
mutually, not to grant any particular favor to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation , which shall not immediately become com-
mon to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession
was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation , if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE 3.

Mutual bene-

The two high contracting parties being likewise desirous of placing

fits in trade and the commerce and navigation of their respective countries on the liberal

residence to be basis of perfect equallity and reciprocity, mutually agree that the citizens

enjoyed.

of each may frequent all the coasts and countries of the other, and reside

and trade there in all kinds of produce , manufactures and merchandize ;

and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions, in naviga-

tion and commerce, which native citizens do , or shall enjoy, submitting

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

467

En fée de lo cual los referidos Plenipotenciarios lo hemos firmado y sellado con nuestros sellos respectivos. Fecho en Megico á los tres dias del Mes de Abril de mil ocho cientos treinta y cinco, decimo quinto de la Independencia de los Estados Unidos Megicanos y quincuagesimo noveno de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

J. M. GUTIERREZ DE ESTRADA, (L. s.)

JOSE MARIANA BLASCO,

(L. S.)

A. BUTLER,

(L. S.)

TRATADO DE PAZ, AMISTAD, NAVEGACION Y COMERCIO,
Entre la Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America.
LA Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando hacer duradera y firme la amistad y buena inteligencia que felizmente existe entre ambas potencias, han resuelto fijar de una manera clara, distinta y positiva, las reglas que deben observar religiosamente en lo venidero, por medio de un tratado de paz, amistad, comercio y navegacion. Con este muy deseable objeto, el Presidente de la Republica de Venezuela ha conferido plenos poderes á Santos Michelena, ciudadano de la misma, y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America á John G. A. Williamson , ciudadano de dichos Estados y su encargado de negocios cerca de la dicha Republica ; quienes, despues de haber cangeado sus espresados plenos poderes en debida y buena forma, han convenido en los articulos siguientes :
ARTICULO 1.
Habrá una paz perfecta, firme é inviolable y amistad sincera, entre la Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America, en toda la estension de sus posesiones y territorios, y entre suspueblos y ciudadanos respectivamente, sin distincion de personas ni lugares.
ARTICULO 2.
La Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando virir en paz y en armonia con las demas naciones de la tierra, por medio de una politica franca é igualmente amistosa con todas, se obligan mútuamente á no conceder favores particulares á otras naciones, con respecto á comercio y navegacion, que no se hagan immediatamente comunes á una ú otra, quien gozará de los mismos, libremente , si la concesion fue hecha libremente, ó prestando la misma compensacion, si la concesion fuere condicional.
ARTICULO 3.
Las dos altas partes contratantes, deseando tambien establecer el comercio y navegacion de sus respectivos paises sobre las liberales bases de perfecta igualdad y reciprocidad, convienen mutuament en que los ciudadanos de cada una podrán frecuentar todas las costas y paises de la otra y residir y traficar en ellos con toda clase de producciones, manufacturas y mercaderias, y gozarán de todos los derechos, privilegios y exenciones, con respecto á navegacion y comercio, de que gozan ó

468

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1830.

themselves to the laws, decrees and usages there established , to which native citizens are subjected : but it is understood that this article does not include the coasting trade of either country, the regulation of which is reserved, by the parties respectively, according to their own separate laws.

ARTICLE 4.

Equalization of They likewise agree that, whatever kind of produce, manufactures

duties on ves- or merchandize of any foreign country can be, from time to time, lawsels and their

cargoes.

fully imported into the United States in their own vessels, may be also

imported in vessels of the Republic of Venezuela ; and that no higher

or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessels and her cargo shall be

levied and collected , whether the importation be made in the vessels of

the one country or of the other : and, in like manner, that whatever kind of produce, manufactures or merchandize of any foreign country

can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the Republic of Vene-

zuela in its own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the United

States ; and that no higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the ves-

sels and her cargo shall be levied or collected, whether the importation be made in vessels of the one country or of the other. And they agree

that whatever may be lawfully exported or re-exported from the one

country in its own vessels, to any foreign country, may, in like manner,

be exported or re-exported in the vessels of the other country. And

the same bounties, duties and drawbacks shall be allowed and collected ,

whether such exportation or re-exportation be made in vessels of the

United States or of the Republic of Venezuela.

ARTICLE 5.

Characteristics voefsasVele.nezuelan

For the better understanding ofthe preceding article, and taking into consideration the actual state of the commercial marine of the Republic of Venezuela, it has been stipulated and agreed , that all vessels belonging exclusively to a citizen or citizens of said Republic , and whose captain is also a citizen of the same, though the construction or crew are or may be foreign, shall be considered, for all the objects of this treaty, as a Venezuelan vessels.

ARTICLE 6.

Importations

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into

and exporta- the United States of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the

trieocinpsrtoocablefooont-a Republic of Venezuela , and no higher or other duties shall be imposed

ing.

on the importation into de Republic of Venezuela of any articles the

produce or manufacture of the United States, than are or shall be paya-

ble on the like articles, being the produce or manufactures of any other

foreign country ; nor shall any higher or other duties or charges be im-

posed in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles

to the United States or to the Republic of Venezuela, respectively, than such as are payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other

foreign country; nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the exportation

or importation of any articles the produce or manufactures ofthe United

States or of the Republic of Venezuela, to or from the territories of the

United States, or to or from the territories of the Republic of Vene-

zuela, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ARTICLE 7.

Citizens ofboth It is likewise agreed that it shall be wholly free for all merchants,
nations to be on commanders of ships and other citizens of both countries, to manage a footing of themselves their own business , in all the ports and places subject to the equality, & c.
jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignment and
sale of their goods and merchandise by wholesale or retail, as with re-

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

469

gozaren los ciudadanos naturales, sometiendose á las leyes, decretos y usos establecidos, á que estan sujetos dichos ciudadanos. Pero debe entenderse que este articulo no comprende el comercio de cabotage de cada uno de los paises, cuya regulacion queda reservada á las partes respectivamente, segun sus leyes propias y peculiares.
ARTICULO 4.
Ygualmente convienen en que cualquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ó mercaderias, de cualquier pais estranjero que puedan ser en cualquier tiempo legalmente introducidas en la Republica de Venezuela en sus propios buques, puedan tambien ser introducidas en los buques de los Estados Unidos, y que no se impondrán ó cobrarán otros ó mas altos derechos de tonelada, ó por el cargamento, ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ó de la otra. De la misma manera, cualquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ó mercaderias de cualquiera pais estranjero, que puedan ser en cualquiere tiempo legalmente introducidas en los Estados Unidos en sus propios buques, podrán tambien ser introducidas en los buques de la Republica de Venezuela ; y no se impondrán ó cobrarán otros ó mas altos derechos de tonelada o por el cargamento, ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ó de la otra. Y convienen que todo lo que pueda ser legalmente exportado ó re-exportado de uno de los dos paises en sus propios buques para un pais estrangero, pueda de la misma manera ser exportado en los buques del otro. Y los mismos derechos, premios ó descuentos se concederán y cobrarán, sea que la exportacion ó re-exportacion se haga en los buques de la Republica de Venezuela ó en los de los Estados Unidos.
ARTICULO 5.
Para cabal inteligencia del articulo precedente, y en consideracion al estado de la marina comercial de la Republica de Venezuela, se ha es-
tipulado y convenido que todo buque perteneciente exclusivamente á ciudadano ó ciudadanos de dicha Republica, y cuyo capitan sea tambien ciudadano de ella, aunque su construccion y tripulacion sean estranjeras, será considerado para todos los efectos de este tratado, como buque Venezolano.
ARTICULO 6.
No se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos á la importacion en la Republica de Venezuela de cualquiera articulo, produccion ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos, ni se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos á la importacion de cualquier articulo, produccion ó manufactura de la Republica de Venezuela, en los Estados Unidos, que los que se paguen ó pagaren por iguales articulos, produccion ó manufactura de cualquier pais estrangero; ni se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos ó impuestos en cualquiera de los dos paises, á la esportacion de cualesquiera articulos para la Republica de Venezuela, ó para los Estados Unidos respectivamente, que los que se paguen ó pagaran á la exportacion de iguales articulos para cualquiera otro pais extrangero ; ni se prohibirá la importacion ó exportacion en los territorios ó de los territorios de la Republica de Venezuela y de los Estados Unidos, de cualesquiera articulos, produccion ó manufactura de la una ó de la otra, á menos que esta prohibicion sea igualmente extensiva á todas las otras naciones.
ARTICULO 7.
Se conviene á demas, que será enteramente libre y permitido á los comerciantes, comandantes de buques, y otros ciudadanos de ambos paises, el manejar sus negocios por si mismos, en todos los puertos y ugares sujetos á la jurisdiccion de uno ú otro , asi respecto de las consignaciones y ventas por mayor y menor de sus efectos y mercaderias,
2P

470

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

spect to the loading, unloading and sending off their ships ; they being in all these cases to be treated as citizens of the country in which they reside, or, at least, to be placed on a footing with the subjects or citizens of the most favoured nation.

ARTICLE 8.

No embargo without allow. ing indemnification.

The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels, cargoes, merchandises, or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any public or private purpose whatever, without allowing to those interested a sufficient indemnification .

ARTICLE 9.

Citizens to be treated as friends in cases
ofcompulsory resort, & c.

Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in the rivers, bays, ports or dominions of the other with their vessels, whether merchant or of war, public or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity ; giving to them all favour and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provisions, and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage, without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.
ARTICLE 10.

Captures by pirates.

All the ships, merchandise and the effects belonging to the citizens of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates, whether within the limits of its jurisdiction or on the high seas, and may be carried or found in the rivers, roads, bays, ports, or dominions of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving, in due and proper form, their rights before the competent tribunals ; it being well understood, that the claim should be made within the term of one year, by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of the respective Governments.
ARTICLE 11.

Protection in case of wreck.

When any vessel belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting

parties shall be wrecked, foundered, or shall suffer any damage on the

coasts or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to

them all assistance and protection in the same manner which is usual

and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens,

permitting them to unload the said vessel, if necessary, of its merchan-

dise and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or contribu-

tion whatever, until they may be exported, unless they be destined for

consumption.

ARTICLE 12.

Power to dis-
pose of property wdiictthiionn tohfetjuhreiscontracting par ties.

The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to
dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation, testament or otherwise, and their representatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof either by themselves or others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such duties only as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases. And if in the case of real estate, the said heirs would be prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance on account of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years, to dispose of the same as they may think proper, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation, nor any other charges than those which are imposed by the laws of the country.

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

471

como de la carga y descarga y despacho de sus buques, Jebiendo en todos casos, ser tratados como ciudadanos del pais en que residan, ó al menos puestos sobre un pié igual con los súbditos ó ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas.
ARTICULO 8.
Los ciudadanos de una ú otra parte no podrán ser embargados ni detenidos con sus embarcaciones, tripulaciones, mercaderias y efectos comerciales, de su pertenencia, para alguna expedicion militar, usos publicos ó particulares, cualesquiera que sean, sin conceder á los interesados una suficiente indemnizacion .
ARTICULO 9.
Siempre que los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes se vieren precisados á buscar refugio ó asilo en los rios, bahias, puertos ó dominios de la otra con sus buques, ya sean mercantes ó de guerra, publicos ó particulares, por mal tiempo, persecucion de piratas ó enemigos, serán recibidos y tratados con humanidad, dandoles todo favor y proteccion para reparar sus buques, procurar viveres, y ponerse en situacion de continuar su viaje, sin obstaculo ó estorbo de ningun genero.

ARTICULO 10.
Todos los buques, mercaderias y efectos pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que sean apresados por piratas, bien sea dentro de los limites de su jurisdiccion ó en alta mar, y fueren llevados ó hallados en los rios, radas, bahias, puertos ó dominios de la otra, serán entregados á sus dueños, probando estos, en la forma propia y debida, sus derechos ante los tribunales competentes ; bien entendido que el reclamo ha de hacerse dentro del termino de un año, por las mismas partes, sus apoderados, ó agentes de los respectivos Gobiernos.

ARTICULO 11.
Cuando algun buque perteneciente á los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, naufrague, encalle, ó sufra alguna averia en las costas ó dentro de los dominios de la otra, se les dará toda ayuda y proteccion, del mismo modo que es uso y costumbre con los buques de la nacion en donde suceda la averia, permitiendoles descargar el dicho buque, si fuere necesario, de sus mercaderias y efectos, sin cobrar por esto, hasta que sean esportados, ningun derecho, impuesto ó contribucion, á menos que se destinen al consumo.
ARTICULO 12.
Los ciudadanos de cada una de las partes contratantes tendrán pleno poder para disponer de sus bienes personales dentro de la jurisdiccion de la otra, por venta, donacion, testamento, ó de otro modo ; y sus representantes, siendo ciudadanos de la otra parte, sucederán á sus dichos bienes personales, ya sea por testamento ó ab intestato, y podrán tomar posesion de ellos, ya sea, por si mismos ó por otros que otren por ellos, y disponer de los mismos segun su voluntad, pagando aquellas cargas solamente que los habitantes del pais en donde estan los referidos bienes, estuvieren sujetos á pagar en iguales casos. Y si en el caso de
bienes raices los dichos herederos fuesen impedidos de entrar en la posesion de la herencia por razon de su caracter de estrangeros, se les dara el termino de tres años para disponer de ella como juzguen conveniente, y para estrae su producto sin molestia, ni otros impuestos que los establecidos por las leyes del pais.

472

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

Protection to persons and property.

ARTICLE 13.
Both the contracting parties promise and engage, formally, to give their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice, for their judicial recourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which they may employ in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at law ; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which may concern them ; and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited on the said trials.

ARTICLE 14.

Liberty ofconscience, and
r&itce.s soefcwuorresdh.ip,

The citizens of the United States residing in the territories of the Republic of Venezuela , shall enjoy the most perfect and entire security of conscience, without being annoyed, prevented or disturbed on account of their religious belief. Neither shall they be annoyed , molested cr

disturbed in the proper exercise of their religion in private houses, or

in the chapels or places of worship appointed for that purpose, with the

decorum due to divine worship, and with due respect to the laws,

usages, and customs of the country. Liberty shall also be granted to

bury the citizens of the United States who may die in the territories of

the Republic of Venezuela, in convenient and adequate places, to be

appointed and established by themselves, for that purpose, with the knowledge of the local authorities, or in such other places of sepulture

as may be chosen by the friends of the deceased ; nor shall the funerals

or sepulcres of the dead be disturbed, in any wise, nor upon any

account. In like manner, the citizens of Venezuela shall enjoy within

the Government and territories of the United States, a perfect and

unrestrained liberty of conscience and of exercising their religion pub-

licly or privately, within their own dwelling-houses, or in the chapels

and places of worship appointed for that purpose, agreeable to the laws, usages, and customs of the United States.

ARTICLE 15.

Both parties at It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America

lwiibtehrttyhotsoetraatde enmity with either, & c.
Free ships to make free goods.

and of the Republic of Venezuela, to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security, no distinction being made who are the
proprietors of the merchandises laden thereon, from any port, to the places of those who now are, or hereafter shall be at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It shall, likewise, be lawful for the citizens aforesaid to sail with their ships and merchandises before mentioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the places, ports, and havens of those who are enemies of both, or either party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever, not only directly from the places of the enemy before mentioned to neutral places, but also from one place, belonging to an enemy, to another place, belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction of one power, or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free ships shall also give
freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt, which shall be found on board the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either ; contraband

goods being always excepted . It is also agreed , in like manner, that the same liberty shall be extended to persons who are on board a free

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

473

ARTICULO 13.
Ambas partes contratantes se comprometen y obligan formalmente á dar su proteccion especial á las personas y propiedades de los ciudadanos de cada una reciprocamente, transeuntes ó habitantes, de todas ocupaciones, en los territorios sujetos á la jurisdiccion de una y otra, dejandoles abiertos y libres los tribunales de justicia para sus recursos judiciales, en los mismos terminos que son de uso y costumbre para los naturales ó ciudadanos del pais en que residan ; para lo cual, podrán emplear en defensa de sus derechos, aquellos abogados, procuradores, escribanos, agentes ó factores, que juzguen conveniente, en todos sus asuntos y litijios ; y dichos ciudadanos o agentes tendrán la libre facultad de estar presentes en las decisiones y sentencias de los tribunales, en todos los casos que conciernan á aquellos, como igualmente al tomar todos los exâmenes y declaraciones que se ofrezcan en los dichos litijios.
ARTICULO 14.
Los ciudadanos de la Republica de Venezuela residentes en los territorios de los Estados Unidos, gozarán una perfecta é ilimitada libertad de conciencia, sin ser molestados, inquietados ni perturbados por su creencia religiosa. Ni serán molestados, inquietados ó perturbados en el ejercicio de su religion en casas privadas, en las capillas ó lugares de adoracion designados al efecto, con el decoro debido á la divinidad, y respeto á las leyes, usos y costumbres del pais. Tambien tendrán libertad para enterrar los ciudadanos de Venezuela que mueran en los territorios de los Estados Unidos, en los lugares convenientes y ade-
cuados, designados y establecidos por ellos con acuerdo de las autoridades locales, ó en los lugares de sepultura que elijan los amigos de los muertos ; y los funerales y sepulcros no serán trastornados de modo alguno ni por ningun motivo.

De la misma manera los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos gozarán en los territorios de la Republica de Venezuela perfecta é ilimitada libertad de conciencia, y ejercerán su religion publica ó privadamente en sus mismas habitaciones, ó en las capillas y lugares de adoracion designados al efecto, de conformidad con las leyes, usos y costumbres de la Republica de Venezuela.

ARTICULO 15.

Será licito á los ciudadanos de la Republica de Venezuela y de los

Estados Unidos de America, navegar con sus buques, con toda seguridad y libertad, de cualquier puerto á las plazas ó lugares de los que son ó fueren en adelante enemigos de cualquiera de las dos partes contratantes, sin hacerse distincion de quienes son los dueños de las mer-

cancias cargadas en ellos. Será igualmente licito á los referidos

ciudadanos, navegar con sus buques y mercaderias mencionadas, y

traficar con la misma libertad y seguridad, de los lugares, puertos y ensenadas de los enemigos de ambas partes, ó de alguna de ellas, sin ninguna oposicion ó disturbio cualquiera, no solo directamente de los

lugares del enemigo arriba mencionados á lugares neutros, sino tambien

de un lugar perteneciente a un enemigo, á otro enemigo, ya sea que esten bajo la jurisdiccion de una potencia, ó bajo la de diversas. Y queda aqui estipulado, que los buques libres dan tambien libertad á las

mercaderias, y que se ha de considerar libre y esento, todo lo que se hallare á bordo de los buques pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes, aunque toda la carga ó parte de ella pertenezca á enemigos de una ú otra, esceptuando siempre articulos de

contrabando de guerra. Se conviene tambien del mismo modo, en que

la misma libertad se estienda á las personas que se encuentren á bordo de

VOL. VIII. 60

2P2

474

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA . 1836.

Free ships to
Bmoankse. free per Proviso.

ship, with this effect, that, although they be enemies to both, or either party, they are not to be taken out of that free ship, unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemies. Provided,
however, and it is hereby agreed, that the stipulations in this article contained, declaring that the flag shal cover the property, shall be understood as applaying to those powers only who recognise this principle ; but if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover the
property of enemies whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE 16.

Enemy's pro-
perty,tobe prottreacltefdlabgy, maunsetube shipped, when.

It is likewise agreed, that in the case where the neutral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the other, by virtue of the above stipulations, it shall always be understood that the neutral property found on board such enemy's vessels, shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and, as such , shall be liable to detention and confiscation ; except such property as

was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war, or even

afterwards, if it were done without the knowledge of it : but the contracting parties agree, that two months having elapsed after the decla

ration, their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary,

if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that case, the goods and merchandises of the neutral, embarked in such enemy's ship, shall be free.

Contraband specified .
Goods not contraband.

ARTICLE 17.
This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandise, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband ; and under this name of contraband or prohibited goods shall be comprehended :
1st. Cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses, muskets, fusees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberds and grenades, bombs, powder, matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms.
2d. Bucklers, helmets, breastplates, coats of mail, infantry-belts, and clothes made up in the form and for military use.
3d. Cavalry-belts, and horses with their furniture. 4th. And generally all kinds of arms and instruments of iron, steel , brass, and copper, or of any other materials, manufactured, prepared , and form expressly to make war by sea or land.
ARTICLE 18.
All other merchandises and things not comprehended in the articles of contraband explicitly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce, so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner, by the citizens of both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy; excepting, only, those places which are, at that time, besieged or blockaded ; and to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared, that those places only are besieged or blockaded , which are actually attacked by a belligerent force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral.

Contraband
only, liable to confiscation.

ARTICLE 19.
The articles of contraband before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation, leaving free the rest of the cargo and the

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

475

buques libres, con el fin de que aunque dichas personas sean enemigos de ambas partes ó de alguna de ellas, no deban ser estraidos de los buques libres á menos que sean oficiales ó soldados en actual servicio de los enemigos : á condicion no obstante, y se conviene aqui en esto, que las estipulaciones contenidas en el presente articulo, declarando que el pabellon cubre la propiedad , se entenderán aplicables solamente á aquellas potencias que reconocen este principio ; pero si alguna de las dos partes contratantes estuviere en guerra con una tercera, y la otra permaneciese neutral , la bandera de la neutral cubrirá la propiedad de los enemigos cuyos Gobiernos reconocen este principio, y no de otros.
ARTICULO 16.
Se conviene igualmente que en caso de que la bandera neutral de una de las partes contratantes, proteja las propiedades de los enemigos de la otra, en virtud de lo estipulado arriba, deberá siempre entenderse, que las propiedades neutrales encontradas á bordo de tales buques enemigos, han de tenerse y considerarse a como propiedades enemigas, y como tales estarán sujetas á detencion y confiscacion ; esceptuando solamente aquellas propiedades que hubiesen sido puestas á bordo de tales buques antes de la declaracion de la guerra, y aun despues, si hubiesen sido embarcadas en dichos buques sin tener noticia de la guerra : y se conviene que pasados dos meses despues de la declaracion, los ciudadanos de una y otra parte no podrán alegar que la ignoraban. Por el contrario, si la bandera neutral no protegiese las propiedades enemigas, entonces serán libres los efectos y mercaderias de la parte neutral embarcadas en buques enemigos.
ARTICULO 17.
Esta libertad de navegacion y comercio se estendera á todo genero de mercaderias, esceptuando aquellas solamente que se distinguen con el nombre de contrabando ; y bajo este nombre de contrabando ó efectos prohibidos, se comprenderán :
1° Cañones , morteros, obuces, pedreros, trabucos, mosquetes, fusiles, rifles, carabinas, pistolas, picas, espadas, sables, lanzas, chuzos, alabardas y granadas, bombas, pólvora, mechas, balas, con las demas cosas correspondientes al uso de estas armas.
2º Escudos, casquetes, corazas, cotas de malla, fornituras, y vestidos hecho en forma y á usanza militar.
3° Bandoleras y caballos, junto con sus armas y arneses. 4º Y generalmente, toda especie de armas é instrumentos de hierro, acero, bronce, cobre, y otras materias cualesquiera, manufacturadas, preparadas y formadas espresamente para hacer la guerra por mar ó tierra.
ARTICULO 18.
Todas las demas mercaderias y efectos no comprendidos en los articulos de contrabando explicitamente enumerados y clasificados en el articulo anterior, serán tenidos y reputados por libres, y de licito y libre comercio, de modo que ellos puedan ser transportados y llevados de la manera mas libre por los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes, aún á los lugares pertenecientes á un enemigo de una ú otra , exceptuando solamente aquellos lugares ó plazas que están al mismo tiempo sitiadas ó bloqueadas, y para evitar toda duda en el particular, se declaran sitiadas ó bloqueadas aquellas plazas que en la actualidad estuviesen atacadas por una fuerza de un beligerante capaz de impedir la entrada del neutral.
ARTICULO 19.
Los articulos de contrabando antes enumerados y clasificados, que se hallen en un buque destinado á puerto enemigo , estarán sujetos á detencion y confiscacion , dejando libre el resto del cargamento y el buque

476

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

ship, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high seas on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever the master, captain or supercargo of said vessel will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor, unless the quantity of such articles be so great or of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on board the capturing ship without great inconvenience ; but in this, and in all other cases of just detention, the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest convenient and safe port for trial and judgment according to law.

ARTICLE 20.

Notice of blockade.
Vessels enter ing before blockade, may quit unmolested.

And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or places belonging to an enemy without knowing that the same is besieged, blockaded or invested , it is agreed that every vessel so circumstanced may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband, be confiscated ; unless, after warning of such blockade or investment from any officer commanding a vessel of the blockading forces, she shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such port before the same was actually besieged, blockaded or invested by the other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo ; nor, if found therein after the reduction and surrender, shall such vessel or her cargo be liable to confiscation, but they shall be restored to the owners thereof.

ARTICLE 21.

Examination ofvessels at Bea.

In order to prevent all kind of disorder in the visiting and examination of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties, on the high seas, they have agreed, mutually, that, whenever a vessel of war, public or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send its boats with two or three men only, in order to execute the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion, violence, or ill-treatment, for which the commanders of the said armed ships shall be responsible, with their persons and property ; for which purpose the commanders of said
private armed vessels shall, before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit ; and it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall, in no case, be required to go on board the examining vessel for the purpose of exhibiting his papers, or for any other purpose whatever.

ARTICLE 22.

One of the parties being
evensgsaeglesdoifntwhaer, other to be provided with sea letters, & c.

To avoid all kind of vexation and abuse in the examination of the papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens of the two contracting parties, they have agreed, and do agree, that in case one of them should be engaged in war, the ships and vessels belonging to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea-letters, or passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the ships, as

also the name and place of habitation of the master or commander of

said vessel, in order that it may thereby appear that said ship really and truly belongs to the citizens of one of the parties ; they have likewise

agreed that such ship being laden , besides the said sea-letters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates, containing the several

particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed , so that it

may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board

'TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

477

para que los dueños puedan disponer de ellos como lo crean conveniente. Ningun buque de cualquiera de las dos naciones, será detenido por tener á bordo articulos de contrabando, siempre que el maestre, capitan 6 sobrecargo de dicho buque, quiera entregar los articulos de contrabando al apresador, á menos que la cantidad de estos articulos sea tan grande y de tanto volúmen que no puedan ser recibidos á bordo del buque apresador sin grandes inconvenientes ; pero en este, como en todos los otros casos de justa detencion, el buque detenido será enviado al puerto mas inmediato, cómodo y seguro, para ser juzgado y sentenciado conforme á las leyes.
ARTICULO 20.
Y por cuanto frecuentemente sucede que los buques navegan para un puerto ó lugar perteneciente á un enemigo, sin saber que aquel esté sitiado, bloqueado ó investido, se conviene en que todo buque en estas circumstancias se pueda hacer volver de dicho puerto ó lugar, pero no será detenido ni confiscado parte alguna de su cargamento, no siendo contrabando ; á menos que despues de la intimacion de semejante bloqueo ó ataque por cualquier comandante de un buque de las fuerzas bloqueadoras, intentase otra vez entrar ; pero le será permitido ir á cualquier otro puerto ó lugar que juzgue conveniente. Ni ningun buque de una de las partes que haya entrado en semejante puerto ó lugar, antes que estuviese sitiado, bloqueado ó envestido por la otra, será impedido de dejar el tal lugar con su cargamento, ni si fuere hallado allí despues de la rendicion y entrega de semejante lugar, estará el tal buque ó su cargamento sujeto á confiscacion, sino que serán restituidos á sus dueños.
ARTICULO 21.
Para evitar todo genero de desorden en la visita y ecsâmen de los buques y cargamentos de ambas partes contratantes en alta mar, han convenido mútuamente, que siempre que un buque de guerra público ó particular se encontrase con un neutral de la otra parte contratante, el primero permanecerá fuero de tiro de cañon , y podrá mandar su bote con dos ó tres hombres solamente, para ejecutar el dicho ecsamen de los papeles concernientes á la propiedad y carga del buque, sin ocasionar la menor estorcion, violencia ó mal tratamiento, por lo que los comandantes de dicho buque armado serán responsables con sus personas y bienes ; á cuyo efecto los comandantes de buques armados, por cuenta de particulares, estarán obligados antes de entregarseles sus comisiones ó patentes, á dar fianza suficiente para responder de los perjuicios que causen. Y se ha convenido expresamente, que en ningun caso se exi-
girá á la parte neutral que vaya á bordo del buque examinador con el fin de exsîbir sus papeles, ó para cualquier otro objeto, sea el que fuere.
ARTICULO 22.
Para evitar toda clase de vejamen y abuso en el examen de los papeles relativos á la propiedad de los buques pertenencientes á los ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes, han convenido y convienen que en caso de que una de ellas estuviere en guerra, los buques y bajeles pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de la otra, serán provistos con letras de mar ó pasaportes, espresando el nombre, propiedad y tamaño del buque, como tambien el nombre y lugar de la residencia del maestre ó comandante, á fin de que se vea que el buque real y verdaderamente pertenece a los ciudadanos de una de las partes ; y han convenido igualmente, que estando cargados los espresados buques, ademas de las letras de mar ó pasaportes, estarán tambien provistos de certificados, que contengan los por menores del cargamento y el lugar de donde salio el buque, para que asi puedo saberse si hay á su bordo algunos efectos prohibidos ó de

478

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship saild , in the accustomed form : without such requisites, said vessels may be detained, to be adjudged by the competent tribunal , and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be proved to be owing to accident, and satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.

ARTICLE 23.

Visiting regu
lations to apply only to vessels without convoy.

It is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed relative to the visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which
sail without convoy, and when said vessels shall be under convoy, the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of

honour, that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose

flag he carries ; and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they

have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

ARTICLE 24.

Prize courts

It is further agreed, that in all cases, the established courts for prize

ocnaluysetso. try prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted , shall alone take cognizance of them ; and whenever such tribunals, of either party,

shall pronounce judgment against any vessel, or goods, or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reason or motives on which the same shall have been

founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded, be delivered to the

commander or agent of said vessel, without any delay, he paying the

legal fees for the same. ARTICLE 25.

The neutral
party not to ac-
cept a commission to cruise against the other.

Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with another State, no citizen of the other contracting party shall accept a commission or letter of marque, for the purpose of assisting or co-ope-
rating hostilely with the said enemy, against the said party, so at war, under the pain of being considered as a pirate.

ARTICLE 26.

In case of war If, by any fatality, which cannot be expected, and which God fortid,

between the the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war with each other,

parties.

they have agreed, and do agree, now for then, that there skall be allowed

the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts, and in

the ports of each other, and the term of one year to those who dwell in

the interior, to arrange their business, and transport their effects , wher-

ever they please, giving to them the safe-conduct necessary for it, which

may serve as a sufficient protection until they arrive at the designated

port. The citizens of all other occupations, who may be established in

the territories or dominions of the United States and of the Republic

of Venezuela, shall be respected and maintained in the full enjoyment

of their personal liberty and property, unless their particular conduct

shall cause them to forfeit this protection , which, in consideration of

humanity, the contracting parties engage to give them.

ARTICLE 27.

No sequestration of money in bank, & c.

Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation to the individuals of the other, nor shares, nor moneys which they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall ever, in any event of war or of national difference, be sequestered or confiscated.

ARTICLE 28.

Official inter-

Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality

course.

in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

479

contrabando, cuyos certificados serán hechos por los oficiales del lugar de la procedencia del buque en la forma acostumbrada ; sin tales requisitos el dicho buque puede ser detenido, para ser juzgado por el tribunal competente, y puede ser declarado buena presa á menos que prueben que la falta emana de accidente y satisfagan ó suplan el defecto con testimonios enteramente equivalentes.

ARTICULO 23.

Se ha convenido ademas, que las estipulaciones anteriores relativas al
exâmen y visita de buques, se aplicarán solamente á los que navegan sin convoy, y cuando los dichos buques estuviesen bajo de convoy, será

bastante la declaracion verbal del comandante del convoy, bajo su pala-

bra de honor, de que los buques que estan bajo su proteccion pertenecen á la nacion cuya bandera llevan ; y cuando se dirijen á un puerto enemigo, que dichos buques no tienen á su bordo articulos de contrabando de guerra.
ARTICULO 24.

Se ha convenido ademas, que en todos los casos que ocurran, solo los

tribunales establecidos para causas de presas en el pais á que las presas

sean conducidas, tomarán conocimiento de ellas. Y siempre que seme-

jante tribunal de cualquiera de las partes, pronunciase sentencia contra algun buque, ó efectos ó propiedad reclamada por los ciudadanos de la

otra parte, la sentencia ó decreto hará mencion de las razones ó motivos en que aquella se haya fundado, y se entregará sin demora alguna al

comandante ó agente de dicho buque, si lo solicitase, un testimonio autentico de la sentencia ó decreto, o de todo el proceso, pagando per él

los derechos legales.

ARTICULO 25.

Siempre que una de las parres contratantes estuviere empeñada en guerra con otro estado, ningun ciudadano de la otra parte contratante aceptará una comision ó letra de marca para el objeto de ayudar ó cooperar hostilmente con el dicho enemigo contra la dicha parte que esté asi en guerra, bajo la pena de ser tratade como pirata.
ARTICULO 26.

Si por alguna fatalidad que no puede espararse, y que Dios no permita, las dos partes contratantes se viesen empeñadas en guerra una con otra, han convenido y convienen de ahora para entonces, que se concederá el término de seú meses á los comerciantes residentes en las costas
y en los puertos de entrambas, y el término de un año á los que habitan en el interior, para arreglar sus negocios y transportar sus efectos á donde quieran, dandoles el salvo conducto necesario para ello, que les sirva de suficiente proteccion hasta que lleguen al puerto que designen. Los ciudadanos de otras ocupaciones que se hallen establecidos en los territorios y dominios de la Republica de Venezuela, ó de los Estados Unidos, serán respetados y mantenidos en el pleno gozo de su libertad personal y propiedad, á menos que su conducta particular les haga perder esta proteccion , que en consideracion á la humanidad, las partes contratantes se comprometen á prestarles.

ARTICULO 27.

Ni las deudas contraidas por los individuos de una nacion con los individuos de la otra, ni las acciones ó dineros que puedan tener en los fondos publicos ó en los bancos publicos ó privados, seran jamas secues trados ó confiscados en ningun caso de guerra ó de diferencia nacional.
ARTICULO 28.

Deseando ambas partes contratantes evitar toda diferencia relativa a rtiqueta en sus comunicaciones y correspondencia diplomaticas, ban

480

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

agreed, and do agree, to grant to the envoys, ministers and other public agents, the same favours, immunities and exemptions, which those of the most favoured nation do, or shall enjoy : it being understood that whatever favours, immunities or privileges, the United States of America or the Republic of Venezuela may find it proper to give to the ministers and other public agents of any other power, shall, by the same act, be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

ARTICLE 29.

Each party to have consuls , & c. in each other's ports.

To make more effectual the protection which the United States and the Republic of Venezuela shall afford in future to the navigation and commerce of the citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit consuls and vice-consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who
shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities, of the consuls and vice-consuls of the most favoured nation ; each contracting
party, however, remaining at liberty to exept those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such consul [and vice-consuls] may not seem convenient.

ARTICLE 30.

Consuls, & c. must exhibit their commissions.

In order that the consuls and vice-consuls of the two contracting parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives and immunities which belong to them by their public character, they shall, before entering on the exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent in due form to the government to which they are accredited , and , having obtained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such by all the authorities, magistrates and inhabitants in the consular district in which they reside.

ARTICLE 31.

Immunities of consuls, & c.

It is likewise agreed that the consuls, their secretaries, officers and persons attached to the service of consuls, they not being citizens of the country in which the consul resides, shall be exempt from all kinds of taxes, imposts and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and foreign, of the country in which they reside are subject, being in every thing besides, subject to the laws of the respective States. The archives and papers of the consulates shall be respected inviolably, and , under no pretext whatever, shall any magistrate seize or in any way interfere with them .

ARTICLE 32.

May require the aid of the
civil authorities
to arrest deserterg.

The said consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country for the arrest, detention and custody, of deserters from the public and private vessels of their country, and for that purpose, they shall address themselves to the courts, judges and

officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing ; proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessel's or ship's roll, or

other public documents, that those men were part of the said crews, and

on this demand so proved, (saving, however, where the contrary is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused . Such deserters , when

arrested, shall be put at the disposal of said consuls, and may be put in the public prisons, at the request and expence of those who reclaim

Deserters man be sent back within two months.

them, to be sent to the ships to which they belonged, or to others of the same nation. But if they be not sent back within two months, to be
counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

481

convenido asi mismo, y convienen en conceder á sus enviados y ministros y otros agentes diplomaticos, los mismos favores, inmunidades y exenciones de que gozan ó gozaren en lo venidero los de las naciones mas favorecidas ; bien entendido, que cualquier favor, inmunidad ó privilegio que la Republica de Venezuela ó los Unidos Estados de America tengan por conveniente dispensar á los enviados, ministros y agentes diplomaticos de otras potencias, se haga por el mismo hecho estensivo á los de una y otra de las partes contratantes.

ARTICULO 29.
Para hacer mas efectiva la proteccion que la Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America darán en adelante á la navegacion y comercio de los ciudadanos de una y otra, se convienen en recibir y admitir consules y vice-consules en todos los puertos abiertos al comercio estrangero, quienes gozarán en ellos de todos los derechos, prerrogativas é inmunidades de los consules y vice-consules de la nacion mas favorecida ; quedando no obstante en libertad cada parte contratante, para exceptuar aquellos puertos y lugares en que la admision y residencia de semejantes consules y vice-consules no parezca conveniente.
ARTICULO 30.
Para que los consules y vice consules de las dos partes contratantes puedan gozar de los derechos prerrogativas é inmunidades que les correspondan por su caracter publico, antes de entrar en el ejercicio de sus funciones, presentarán su comision ó patente, en la forma debida, al Gobierno con quien estén acreditados, y habiendo obtenido el exequatur, serán tenidos y considerados como tales por todas las autoridades, ma. gistrados y habitantes del distrito consular en que residan.

ARTICULO 31.
Se ha convenido igualmente que los consules, sus secretarios, oficiales ypersonas agregadas al servicio de los consulados, (no siendo estas personas ciudadanos del pais en que el consul reside, ) estarán exentos, de todo servicio publica, y tambien de toda especie de pechos, impuestos y contribuciones, exceptuando aquellos que estén obligados á pagar por razon de comercio ó propiedad , y á los cuales estan sujetos los ciudadanos y habitantes naturales y extrangeros del pais en que residen, quedando en todo la demas sujetos á las leyes de los respectivos Estados Los archivos y papeles de los consulados serán respetados inviolablemente, y bajo ningun pretesto los ocupará magistrado alguno, ni tendrá con ellos ninguna intervencion.

ARTICULO 32.

Los dichos consules tendrán poder de requerir el auxilio de las au

toridades locales para la prision, detencion y custodia de los desertores

de los buques públicos y particulares, de su pais, y para este objeto se dirijirán á los tribunales, jueces y oficiales competentes, y pedirán los dichos desertores por escrito, probando por una presentacion de los

registros de los buques, rol del equipage ú otros documentos publicos,

que aquellos hombres, eran parte de las dichas tripulaciones, y á esta demanda asi probada (menos, no obstante, cuando se probase lo con-

tario) no se recusará la entrega. Semejantes desertores luego que sean arrestados, se pondrán á disposicion de los dichos consules, y pueden ser depositados en las prisiones publicas, á soli citud y espensas de los

que lo reclamen, para ser enviados á los buque á que corresponden ó á otros de la misma nacion. Pero si no fueren mandados dentro de dos

meses contados desde el dia de su arresto, serán puestos en libertad, y

no volverán á ser presos por la misma causa.

VOL VIII. 61

2Q

482

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA. 1836.

ARTICLE 33.

Consular convention to be formed.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon hereafter as circumstances will permit them, to form a consular convention, which shall declare especially the powers and immunities of the consuls and vice consuls of the respective parties.

ARTICLE 34.

The following points agreed 10.
Treaty to remain in force twelve years.
Individuals personally responsible for infringements.

The United States of America and the Republic of Venezuela, desiring to make as durable as circumstances will permit the relations which are to be established between the two parties by virtue of this treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :
1st. The present treaty shall remain in full force and virtue for the term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and further, until the end of one year after either of the contracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention to terminate the same ; each of the contracting parties reserving to itself the right of giving such notice to the other at the end of said term of twelve years ; and it is hereby agreed between them that, on the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either from the other party, this treaty in all its parts relative to commerce and navigation, shall altogether cease and determine, and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship, it shall be perpetually and permanently binding on both powers.
2d. If any one of more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen shall be held personally responsible for the same, and harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby, each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

War not to be 3d. If, (what indeed cannot be expected) unfortunately any of the declared until articles in the present treaty shall be violated or infringed in any other rmeamdoen,satrnadnscaetiiss way whatever, it is expressly stipulated, that neither of the contracting
faction refused. parties will order or authorize any act of reprisal, nor declare war

against the other , on complaints of injuries or damages, until the said party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proofs , and demanded justice, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

Existing treaties not to be affected .

4th. Nothing in this treaty shall, however, be constructed or operate
contrary to former and existing public treaties with other sovereigns and states.

To be ratified within eight months.

The present treaty of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation , shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of Ame rica, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the President of the Republic of Venezuela, with the consent and approbation of the Congress of the same ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the city of Caracas , within eight months , to be counted from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of the Republic of Venezuela, have signed and sealed these presents.

Done in the city of Caracas, on the twentieth day of January, in the

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six, and

in the sixtieth year of the Independence of the United States of

America, and the twenty-sixth of that of the Republic of Venezuela

JOHN GA. WILLIAMSON, (L. s. )

SANTOS MICHELENA,

(L. s )

TREATY WITH VENEZUELA . 1836.

483

ARTICULO 33.
Para proteger mas efectivamente su comercio y navegacion, las dos partes contratantes se convienen en formar luego que las circunstancias lo permitan, una convencion consular, que declare mas especialmente los poderes é inmunidades de los consules y vice consules de las partes respectivas.
ARTICULO 34.
La Republica de Venezuela y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando hacer tan duraderas y firmes como las circumstancias lo permitan, las relaciones que han de establecerse entre las dos potencias en virtud del presente tratado de paz, amistad, navegacion y comercio, han declarado solemnemente, y convienen en los puntos siguentes :
1º. El presente tratado permanecerá en su fuerza y vigor por el termino de doce años, contados desde el dia del cange de las ratificationes, y ademas hasta un año despues que cualquiera de las partes contratantes haya notificado á la otra su intencion de terminarlo ; reservandose las partes contratantes el derecho de hacer tal notificacion la una á la otra al fin de dicho termino de doce años. Y ademas se ha convenido
que este tratado, en todo lo relativo á comercio y navegacion, quedará sin efecto transcurrido que sea un año despues de recibida dicha notificacion por cualquiera de los partes, y en todo lo relativo á paz y amistad, será perpetuamente obligatorio á ambos poderes.

2º. Si alguno ó algunos de los ciudadanos de una ú otra parte infringiesen algunos de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, dichos ciudadanos serán personalmente responsables, sin que por esto se interrumpa la armonia y buena correspondencia entre las dos naciones, comprometiendose cada una á no protejer de modo alguno al ofensor, ó sancionar semejante violacion.
3º. Si , (lo que á la verdad no puede esperarse) desgraciadamente algunos de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado fuesen en alguna otra manera violados ó infringidos, se estipula espresamente que ninguna de las dos partes contratantes ordenará ó autorizará ningunos actos de represalia, ni declarará la guerra contra la otra, por quejas de injurias ó daños , hasta que la parte que se crea ofendida, haya presentado á la otra una esposicion de aquellas injurias ó daños, verificada con pruebas y testimonios competentes, exîgiendo justicia y satisfaccion, y esto haya sido negado ó diferido sin razon.
4. Nada de cuanto se contiene en el presente tratado, se construirá sin embargo, ni obrará en contra de otros tratados publicos anteriores, y existentes con otros Soberanos ó Estados.
El presente Tratado de Paz, Amistad, Comercio, y navigacion será ratificado por el Presidente ó Vice Presidente de la Republica de Venezuela, encargado del Poder Executivo, con consentimiento y aprobacion del Congreso de la misma, y por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, con consejo y aprobacion del Senado de los mismos ; y las ratificaciones serán cangeadas en la ciudad de Caracas dentro de ocho meses contados desde este dia, ó antes si fuere posible.
En fé de lo cual, nosotros los plenipotenciarios de la Republica de Venezuela y de los Estados Unidos de America , hemos firmado y sellado las presentes.

Dadas en la ciudad de Caracas, el dia veinte de Enero, del año del Señor, mil ochocientos treinta y seis, Vigesimosexto de la indepen-
dencia de Venezuela , y sexâgesimo de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

SANTOS MICHELENA, JOHN G. A. WILLIAMSON

(L. S.) (1.. s. )

Sept. 16, 1836.
Proclamation of the President of the U. S., an. 30, 1837.

Emperor's

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. (a)
In the name of God , the merciful and clement ! Abd
Errahman Ibenu Kesham,
whom God exalt !
PRAISE BE TO GOD !

seal.

This is the copy of the Treaty of Peace which we have made with the Americans and written in this book ; affixing thereto our blessed seal, that, with the help of God, it may remain firm forever.
Written at Meccanez, the city of Olives, on the 3d day of the month Jumad el lahhar, in the year of the Hegira 1252. (Corresponding to Sept. 16. A. D. 1836. )

Mutual agree ment of the parties to the treaty.

ART. 1. We declare that both parties have agreed that this treaty, consisting of twenty-five articles, shall be inserted in this book, and delivered to James R. Leib, agent of the United States, and now their resident consul at Tangier, with whose approbation it has been made, and who is duly authorized on their part, to treat with us, concerning all the matters contained therein.

Neitherparty ART. 2. If either of the parties shall be at war with any nation what-

tsoiotnaskfercoommmains- ever, the other shall not take a commission from the enemy, nor fight under their colors.
enemy.

Persons, & c. ofone party, captured in an enemy's vessel, to be released. '

ART. 3. If either of the parties shall be at war with any nation whatever, and take a prize belonging to that nation , and there shall be found on board subjects or effects belonging to either of the parties, the subjects shall be set at liberty, and the effects returned to the owners. And if any goods, belonging to any nation, with whom either of the parties

shall be at war, shall be loaded on vessels belonging to the other party,

they shall pass free and unmolested, without any attempt being made to take or detain them .

Vessels to have ART. 4. A signal, or pass, shall be given to all vessels belonging to

passports.

both parties, by which they are to be known when they meet at sea ;

and if the commander of a ship of war of either party shall have other

ships under his convoy, the declaration of the commander shall alone

be sufficient to exempt any of them from examination .

Visit of vessels ART. 5. If either of the parties shall be at war, and shall meet a

at sea.

vessel at sea belonging to the other, it is agreed , that if an examination

is to be made, it shall be done by sending a boat with two or three men only and if any gun shall be fired, and injury done, without reason, the

offending party shall make good all damages.

American citi- ART. 6. If any Moor shall bring citizens of the United States, or
zens and effects their effects, to his Majesty, the citizens shall immediately be set at to be restored.
liberty, and the effects restored ; and, in like manner, if any Moor, not
a subject of these dominions, shall make prize of any of the citizens

(a) For the treaty with Morocco of January 1787 , see ante, page 100. (484)

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1836.

485

of America or their effects, and bring them into any of the ports of his Majesty, they shall be immediately released, as they will then be considered as under his Majesty's protection.
ART. 7. If any vessel of either party, shall put into a port of the Vessels in port other, and have occasion for provisions or other supplies, they shall be to be supplied. furnished without any interruption or molestation.

ART. 8. If any vessel of the United States, shall meet with a disaster No duty in

at sea, and put into one of our ports to repair, she shall be at liberty to case ofvessels

land and reload her cargo, without paying any duty whatever.

putting in to repair.

ART. 9. If any vessel of the United States, shall be cast on shore on Stranded ves-

any part of our coasts, she shall remain at the disposition of the owners, sels to be protected.
and no one shall attempt going near her without their approbation, as
she is then considered particularly under our protection ; and if any
vessel of the United States shall be forced to put into our ports by stress

of weather, or otherwise, she shall not be compelled to land her cargo,

but shall remain in tranquillity until the commander shall think proper to proceed on his voyage

ART. 10. If any vessel of either of the parties shall have an engagement with a vessel belonging to any of the Christian Powers, within
gun-shot of the forts of the other, the vessel so engaged, shall be defended and protected as much as possible, until she is in safety : and if any American vessel shall be cast on shore, on the coast of Wadnoon, or any coast thereabout, the people belonging to her, shall be protected and assisted, until by the help of God, they shall be sent to their country.

Vessels en-
gaged within gunshot offo to be protect

ART. 11. If we shall be at war with any Christian Power, and any of our vessels sails from the ports of the United States, no vessel belonging to the enemy shall follow, until twenty-four hours after the departure of our vessels : and the same regulations shall be observed towards the American vessels sailing from our ports, be their enemies Moors or Christians.

Enemy's ves
tsoelsfonloltoawlfloorw2e4d hours.

ART. 12. If any ship of war belonging to the United States, shall put into any of our ports, she shall not be examined on any pretence whatever, even though she should have fugitive slaves on board, nor shall the governor or commander of the place compel them to be brought on shore on any pretext, nor require any payment for them.

Ships of war nmoitnetodbien peoxrat.,

ART. 13. If a ship of war of either party shall put into a port of the Salutes to be other, and salute, it shall be returned from the fort with an equal num- returned. ber of guns, not more or less.
ART. 14. The commerce with the United States, shall be on the same American com
footing as is the commerce with Spain, or as that with the most favored merce onthe most favored
nation for the time being ; and their citizens shall be respected and footing. esteemed, and have full liberty to pass and repass our country and sea-
ports whenever they please, without interruption.

ART. 15. Merchants of both countries shall employ only such inter-
preters, and such other persons to assist them in their business, as they shall think proper. No commander of a vessel shall transport his cargo on board another vessel ; he shall not be detained in port longer than he may think proper ; and all persons employed in loading or unloading goods, or in any other labor whatever, shall be paid at the customary rates, not more and not less.

Employment o&f ci.nterpreters,

ART. 16. In case of a war between the parties, the prisoners are not to be made slaves, but to be exchanged one for another, captain for captain, officer for officer, and one private man for another ; and if there
2Q2

Exchange o prisoners.

486

TREATY WITH MOROCCO. 1836.

shall prove a deficiency on either side, it shall be made up by the pay ment of one hundred Mexican dollars for each person wanting. And it is agreed , that all prisoners shall be exchanged in twelve months from the time of their being taken, and that this exchange may be effected by a merchant, or any other person, authorized by either of the parties.

No compulsion in buying or selling.

ART. 17. Merchants shall not be compelled to buy or sell any kind of goods but such as they shall think proper : and may buy and sell all sorts of merchandise but such as are prohibited to the other Christian nations.

No examina-

ART. 18. All goods shall be weighed and examined before they are

tion of goods on sent on board ; and to avoid all detention of vessels, no examination

board, except,

& c.

shall afterwards be made, unless it shall first be proved that contraband

goods have been sent on board ; in which case, the persons who took

the contraband goods on board, shall be punished according to the

usage and custom of the country, and no other person whatever shall

be injured, nor shall the ship or cargo incur any penalty or damage whatever.

No detention of vessels.

ART. 19. No vessel shall be detained in port on any pretence what-
ever, nor be obliged to take on board any article without the consent of the commander, who shall be at full liberty to agree for the freight of any goods he takes on board.

Disputes between Americans, &c. to be
decided by the consul, &c.

ART. 20. If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under their protection, shall have any dispute with each other, the consul shall decide between the parties ; and whenever the consul shall require any aid, or assistance from our Government, to enforce his decisions, it shall be immediately granted to him.

Killing, &c. punishable by the law of the
country.

ART. 21. If a citizen of the United States should kill or wound a Moor, or, on the contrary, if a Moor shall kill or wound a citizen of the United States, the law of the country shall take place, and equal justice shall be rendered, the consul assisting at the trial ; and if any delinquent

shall make his escape, the consul shall not be answerable for him in any manner whatever.

Persons dying intestate ; care
of their effects.

ART. 22. If an American citizen shall die in our country, and no will shall appear, the consul shall take possession of his effects ; and if there shall be no consul , the effects shall be deposited in the hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party shall appear who has` a right to demand them ; but if the heir to the person deceased be present, the property shall be delivered to him without interruption ; and if a will shall appear the property shall descend agreeably to that will, as soon as the consul shall declare the validity thereof.

Residence of consul. [It is generally at Tangier.]

ART. 23. The consul of the United States of America, shall reside in any seaport of our dominions that they shall think proper : and they shall be respected, and enjoy all the privileges which the consuls of any other nation enjoy and if any of the citizens of the United States shall contract any debts or engagements, the consul shall not be in any manner accountable for them, unless he shall have given a promise in writing for the payment or fulfilling thereof; without which promise in writing, no application to him for any redress shall be made.

No appeal to
arms until refu sal of friendly arrangement.

ART. 24. If any differences shall arise by either party infringing on any of the articles of this treaty, peace and harmony shall remain notwithstanding, in the fullest force, until a friendly application shall be made for an arrangement ; and until that application shall be rejected , no appeal shall be made to arms. And if a war shall break out between
the parties, nine months shall be granted to all the subjects of both parties, to dispose of their effects and retire with their property. And

CONVENTION WITH PERU -BOLIVIA. 1 6.

487

it is further declared, that whatever indulgence, in trade or otherwise, In case of war,

shall be granted to any of the Christian Powers, the citizens of the nailnleowmeodnttohssettle

United States shall be equally entitled to them.

affairs, & c.

ART. 25. This treaty shall continue in force, with the help of God, for fifty years ; after the expiration of which term, the treaty shall continue to be binding on both parties, until the one shall give twelve months' notice to the other, of an intention to abandon it ; in which case, its operations shall cease at the end of the twelve months.

Treaty to last fifty years, & c.

Consulate of the United States of America.

For the Empire of Morocco.

}

TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.

Be it known. Whereas the undersigned , James R. Leib, a citizen of the United States of North America, and now their resident consul
at Tangier, having been duly appointed commissioner, by letters patent, under the signature of the President and seal of the United States of
North America, bearing date, at the city of Washington, the 4th day of July A. D. 1835, for negotiating and concluding a treaty of peace and friendship between the United States of North America and the Empire of Morocco ; I, therefore, James R. Leib, Commissioner as
aforesaid, do conclude the foregoing treaty and every article and clause therein contained ; reserving the same, nevertheless, for the final ratifica- Final ratification of the President of the United States of North America, by and tPiroensriedseenrtvUe.d fSo.r with the advice and consent of the Senate.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto affixed my signature, and the seal of this consulate, on the 1st day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six, and of the Independence of the United States the sixty-first.

JAMES R. LEIB, (L. s.)

GENERAL CONVENTION OF PEACE, FRIENDSHIP, COMMERCE, AND NAVIGATION,

Between the United States of America and the Peru- Nov. 13, 1836.

Bolivian Confederation.
THE United States of America and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation, desiring to make firm and permanent the peace and friendship which happily subsist between them, have resolved to fix, in a clear, distinct , and positive manner, the rules which shall, in future, be religiously observed between the one and the other, by means of a treaty, or general convention of peace, friendship, commerce, and navigation.
For this desirable purpose, the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on Samuel Larned, Chargé d'Af faires of the said States, near the Government of Peru ; and the Supreme Protector of the north and south Peruvian States, President of the Republic of Bolivia, encharged with the direction of the foreign relations of the Peru-Bolivian Confederation , has conferred like powers on John Garcia del Rio, Minister of State in the Department of Finance

Ratifications exchanged , May 28, 1838. Proclamation ofthe President ofthe U. S., Oct. 3, 1838. Peace and friendship .
Negotiators.

488

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

Full powers exchanged.

of the north Peruvian State ; who, after having exhibited to each other their respective full powers, found to be in due and proper form , and exchanged certified copies thereof, have agreed to the following articles, to wit :
ARTICLE I.

Firm and inviolable peace.

There shall be a perfect, firm and inviolable peace, and sincere friendship, between the United States of America and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation, in all the extent of their respective territories and possessions, and between their people and citizens, respectively, without distinction of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

Favors granted The United States of America and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation,

tsohaollthbeercnoamteions common.

desiring to live in peace and harmony, as well with each other as with all the nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank, and equally
friendly with all, engage, mutually, not to concede any particular favor to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation , which shall not immediately become common to the other party to this treaty ; who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE III.

Citizens placed on the footing of the most fa-
vored nation , with regard to commerce and
navigation.

The two high contracting parties, being likewise desirous of placing the commerce and navigation of their respective countries on the liberal basis of perfect equality with the most favored nation, mutually agree that the citizens of each may frequent with their vessels, all the coasts and countries of the other, and may reside and trade there in all kinds of produce, manufactures, and merchandize, not prohibited to all ; and

shall pay no other or higher duties, charges or fees, whatsoever, either

on their vessels or cargoes, than the citizens or subjects of the most

favored [nation ] are, or shall be, obliged to pay on their vessels and

cargoes ; and they shall enjoy, respectively, all the rights, privileges,

and exemptions, in navigation and commerce, which the citizens or

subjects of the most favored nation do or shall enjoy ; they submitting

themselves to the laws, decrees, and usages there established, to which

such citizens or subjects are, of right, subjected.

Coasting trade But it is understood that the stipulations contained in this article do

excepted.

not include the coasting trade of either of the two countries ; the regu-

lation of this trade being reserved by the parties, respectively, according

to their own separate laws.

ARTICLE IV.

Merchants

It is likewise agreed, that it shall be wholly free for all merchants,

and others free commanders of ships, and other citizens of both countries, to manage,

toownmabnuasgineetshse. ir themselves, their own business in all the ports and places subject to the jurisdiction of the other, as well with respect to the consignment and

Citizens of neither liable to
any embargo, & c.

sale of their goods and merchandize, as to the purchase of their returns, unloading, loading, and sending off of their vessels. The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable to any embargo, nor to be detained with their vessels, cargoes, merchandize, or effects, for any military expedition, nor for any public or private purpose whatever,

without being allowed therefor a sufficient indemnification . Neither

shall they be called upon for any forced loan , or occasional contribu-

tions ; nor be subject to military service on land or sea.

ARTICLE V.

Protection to

Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be

citizens ofeither forced to seek refuge, shelter , or relief, in the rivers, bays, ports, and party seeking dominions of the other, with their vessels, whether of war, (public or

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

489

private, ) of trade, or employed in the fisheries, through stress of wea- refuge in the

ther, want of water

or

provisions, pursuit

of pirates

or

enemies, they

dominions of the other.

shall be received and treated with humanity ; and all favor and protec-

tion shall be given to them, in the repairing of their vessels, procuring

of supplies, and placing of themselves in a condition to pursue their voyage, without obstacle or hindrance.

ARTICLE VI.

All ships, merchandize, and effects belonging to citizens of one of the Vessels, & c.

contracting parties, which

may be

captured

by pirates, whether on the

captured by pi rates, to be re

high seas, or within the limits of its jurisdiction, and may be carried, or stored.

found, in the rivers, roads, bays, ports, or dominions of the other, shall

be delivered up to the owners, they proving, in due and proper form ,

their rights before the competent tribunals ; it being understood that

the claim should be made within the term of two years, by the parties

themselves, their attornies, or the agents of their respective Governments.
ARTICLE VII.

Whenever any vessel belonging to the citizens of either of the con- Assistance in tracting parties shall be wrecked, founder, or suffer damage, on the case of wreck. coasts, or within the dominions of the other, all assistance and protection shall be given to the said vessel, her crew, and the merchandize on board, in the same manner as is usual and customary with vessels of the nation where the accident happens, in like cases ; and it shall be permitted to her, if necessary, to unload the merchandize and effects on

board, with the proper precautions to prevent their illicit introduction, without exacting, in this case, any duty, impost, or contribution whatever, provided the same be exported.

ARTICLE VIII.

The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to
dispose of their personal effects, within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation, testament, or otherwise ; and their representatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal effects, whether by testament or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof, either themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same at their will, paying such dues only as the inhabitants of the country wherein said effects are shall be subject to pay in like cases. And if, in the case of real estate, the said heirs should be prevented from entering into possession of the inheritance on account of their character as aliens, there shall be granted to them the term of three years in which to dispose of the same, as they may think proper, and to withdraw the proceeds, which they may do withoutobstacle, and exempt from all charges, save those which are imposed by the laws of the country.
ARTICLE IX.

Power to dispefofseectosf. personal
Real estate

Both the contracting parties solemnly promise and engage to give Protection to their special protection to the persons and property of the citizens of persons and cach other, of all classes and occupations, who may be in the territories property. subject to the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein, leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice, for their judicial recourse, on the same terms as are usual and customary with the natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which purpose they may employ, in defence of their rights, such advocates, solicitors, notaries, agents, and factors, as they may judge proper, in all their trials at law ; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases that may concern them ; and, likewise, at the taking of all evidence and examinations that may be exhibited in the said trials.
VOL VIII. 62

490

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

No rights of citizens to be
withdrawn, until, & c.

And, to render more explicit, and make more effectual , the solemn promise and engagement herein before mentioned, under circumstances to which one of the parties thereto has heretofore been exposed, it is hereby further stipulated and declared, that all the rights and privileges which are now enjoyed by, or may hereafter be conferred on , the citizens of one of the contracting parties, by or in virtue of the constitution and laws of the other, respectively, shall be deemed and held to belong to, and inhere in, them, until such rights and privileges shall have been abrogated or withdrawn by an authority constitutionally or lawfully competent thereto.

ARTICLE X.
Liberty ofcon- It is likewise agreed, that perfect and entire liberty of conscience science secured. shall be enjoyed, by the citizens of both the contracting parties, in the
countries subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other, without their being liable to be disturbed or molested on account of their religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages of the country. Rites ofburial. Moreover, the bodies of the citizens of one of the contracting parties, who may die in the territories of the other, shall be buried in the usual burying-grounds, or in other decent and suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

ARTICLE XI.

Citizens ofboth It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America

parties at liberty and of the Peru-Bolivian Confederation, to sail with their ships, with to trade with
the enemies of all manner of liberty and security ; no distinction being to be made

either, & c.

who are the proprietors of the merchandise laden therein, from any port

or places whatever, to the ports and places of those who are now, or hereafter shall be, at enmity with either of the contracting parties. It

shall likewise be lawful for the citizens aforesaid to sail with the ships and merchandise before mentioned , and to trade, with the same liberty

and security, from the places, ports, and havens of those who are ene-

mies of both, or of either party, without any opposition or disturbance

whatsoever ; not only directly from the places of the enemy before

mentioned to neutral places, but also from one place belonging to an

enemy to another place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under
Free ships to the jurisdiction of one power, or under that of several . And it is hereby make free goods, contra- stipulated, that free ships shall give freedom to goods ; and that every band of war ex- thing shall be deemed to be free and exempt, which shall be found on

cepted.

board of the ships belonging to the citizens of either of the contracting

parties, although the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies of either ; goods contraband of war being always excepted.

All persons on It is also agreed , in like manner, that the same liberty shall be extended

tbooabredfarefree,eesxh-ip cept, & c.
Proviso.

to persons who are on board of a free ship , with this effect, that, although they be enemies to both or either of the parties, they shall not be taken out of that free ship , unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual service of the enemy : Provided , however, and it is hereby further

agreed, that the stipulations in this article contained , declaring that the

flag shall cover the property, shall be understood as applying to those

powers only who recognise this principle ; but if either of the contracting parties shall be at war with a third , and the other be neutral , the flag of

the neutral shall cover the property of those enemies whose Governments acknowledge this principle, and not that of others.

ARTICLE XII.

Qualification

It is likewise agreed, that in cases where the neutral flag of one of

oasf ttohenepurtirnacliple the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the

property.

other, in virtue of the above stipulation , it shall always be understood

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

491

that the neutral property found on board of such enemy's vessel shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and as such, shall be liable to detention and confiscation , except such property as was put on board of such vessels before the declaration of war, or even afterwards, if it were done without the knowledge of such declaration : but the contracting parties agree, that six months having elapsed after the declaration , their citizens shall not be allowed to plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property on board ; in this case, the goods and merchandise of the neutral , embarked in such enemy's ship, shall be free.

ARTICLE XIII.

This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandise, excepting only those which are distinguished by the name of contraband, or prohibited goods ; under which name shall be comprehended, 1st, cannons, mortars, howitzers, swivels, blunderbusses ,

Liberty ofcom
merce and navi gation to extend to all goods ex
cept contra-

muskets, fusees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lancets, baCnond.traband spears, halberds, grenades and bombs ; powder, matches, balls, and all specified.
other things belonging to the use of these arms ; 2dly, bucklers, helmets,

breastplates, coats of mail, infantry belts, and clothes made up in a mili-

tary form, and for a military use ; 3dly, cavalry belts, and horses with

their furniture ; 4thly, and generally, all kinds of arms and instruments of iron, steel, brass, and copper, or of any other materials manufac-

tured, prepared, and formed expressly for the purposes of war, either by sea or land.
ARTICLE XIV.

All other merchandise and things not comprehended in the articles of contraband, explicitly enumerated and classified as above, shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce ;
so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner by both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are, at that time, besieged or blockaded ; and to avoid all doubt in this particular, it is declared, that those places only are besieged or blockaded, which are actually attacked by a force capable of preventing the entry of the neutral.

All kinds of
merchandise , except contra. band, free.

ARTICLE XV. The articles of contraband, of those before enumerated and classi- Contraband fied, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall gboleodtso coonnlfyi,sclai-a be subject to detention and confiscation ; but the rest of the cargo and tion. the ship shall be left free, that the owners may dispose of them as they see proper. No vessel of either of the contracting parties shall be Vessels not to detained on the high seas, on account of having on board articles of be detained, contraband, whenever the master, captain, or supercargo of said vessel unless, & c. will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor, unless, indeed, the quantity of such articles be so great, and of so large a bulk, that
they cannot be received on board the capturing vessel without great inconvenience ; but in this, and all other cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to the nearest convenient and safe port, for
trial and judgment according to law.

ARTICLE XVI.

And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is besieged, blockaded or invested , it is agreed that every vessel so circumstanced may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained ; nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband , be confiscated, unless, after being warned of such blockade or investment, by the commanding officer of a vessel forming part of the blockading forces, she

Notice of blockade.

492

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

Free egress allowed in certain cases.

shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place the master or supercargo shall think proper. Nor shall any vessel of either party, that may have entered into such port or place, before the same was actually besieged, blockaded, or invested by

the other, be restrained from quitting it, with her cargo ; nor, if found

therein before or after the reduction and surrender, shall such vessel, or

her cargo be liable to seizure , confiscation, or any demand on the score

of redemption or restitution ; but the owners thereof shall be allowed

Vessels not to to remain in the undisturbed possession of their property. And if any

be permitted to vessel, having thus entered the port before the blockade took place, shall depart with a cargo taken on take on board a cargo after the blockade be established, and attempt to
board during depart, she shall be subject to being warned by the blockading forces to
the blockade. return to the port blockaded, and discharge the said cargo ; and if, after

receiving said warning, the vessel shall persist in going out with the

cargo, she shall be liable to the same consequences to which a vessel

attempting to enter a blockaded port, after being warned off by the

blockading forces would be liable.

ARTICLE XVII.

Regulation of visits at sea.

To prevent all kinds of disorder and irregularity in the visiting and examining of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties on the high seas, they have agreed , mutually, that whenever a vessel of war, public or private, shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain at the greatest distance compatible with the possibility and safety of making the visit, under the circumstances of wind and sea, and the degree of suspicion attending the vessel to be visited, and shall send one of her small boats, with no more men than those necessary to man it, for the purpose of executing the said examination of the papers concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel, without causing the least extortion , violence , or ill-treatment ; in respect of which, the commanders of said armed vessels shall be responsible, with their persons and property ; for which purpose, the commanders of said private armed vessels shall , before receiving their commissions, give sufficient security to answer for all the injuries and damages they may commit. And it is expressly agreed , that the neutral party shall in no case be required to go on board the examining vessel , for the purpose of exhibiting the ship's papers, nor for any other purpose whatever.

ARTICLE XVIII.

In case of war, vessels to be provided with sea-letters.

To avoid all vexation and abuses in the examination of the papers
relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citizens of the contracting parties, they have agreed, and do agree, that, in case one of them should be engaged in war, the ships and vessels of the other must be furnished with sea-letters, or passports, expressing the name,

property, and burden of the ship, as also the name and place of residence of the master or commander thereof, in order that it may thereby

appear that the said ship really and truly belongs to the citizens of one

of the parties. They have likewise agreed, that such ships, being laden ,

besides the said sea-letters or passports, shall be provided with certifi-

cates, containing the several particulars of the cargo, and the place

whence the ship sailed ; so that it may be known whether any contra-

band or prohibited goods are on board of the same : which certificates

If not so provided, may be adjudged lawful prize .

shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship sailed , in the accustomed form : without which requisites the said vessel may be
detained, to be adjudged by the competent tribunals, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be proved to be owing to accident, or be satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent,

in the opinion of said tribunals ; to which ends , there shall be allowed a sufficient term of time for its procurement.

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

493

ARTICLE XIX.
And it is further agreed, that the stipulations above expressed, rela- Vessels under tive to the visiting and examining of vessels, shall apply to those only convoy not sub-
ject to examinawhich sail without convoy ; and when said vessels shall be under convoy, tion. the verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of honor, that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries, and, when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

ARTICLE XX.

It is moreover agreed, that, in all cases, the established courts for Prize courts
prize causes, in the country to which the prize may be conducted , shall only to take alone take cognizance of them. And whenever such tribunal or court, cognizance of
prizes. of either party, shall pronounce judgment against any vessel, goods, or property, claimed by citizens of the other party, the sentence or decree shall mention the reasons or motives in which the same shall have been
founded ; and an authenticated copy of the sentence or decree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall, if demanded, be delivered to the
commander or agent of said vessel or property, without any excuse or delay, he paying the legal fees for the same.

ARTICLE XXI.

Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with Citizens of
another State, no citizen of the other contracting party shall accept a neither party to engage in priva-
commission or letter of marque, for the purpose of assisting or co-ope- teering against rating hostilely with the said enemy against the said party so at war, under the other.
pain of being treated as a pirate.

ARTICLE XXII.

If, at any time, a rupture should take place between the two contract- In the event

ing nations, and (which God forbid) they should become engaged in war of war between

with each other, they have agreed, and do agree now, for then, that the the parties, citimerchants, traders, and other citizens of all occupations, of each of the zmeanisn,m&ayc.retwo parties residing in the cities, ports, and dominions of the other , shall

have the privilege of remaining and continuing their trade and business

therein, and shall be respected and maintained in the full and undis-

turbed enjoyment of their personal liberty and property, so long as they

behave peaceably and properly, and commit no offence against the laws. And in case their conduct should render them suspected of maleprac- If suspected of

tices, and, having thus forfeited this privilege, the respective Govern- malpractices,

ments should think proper to order them to depart, the term of twelve

and ordered to depart, time

months, from the publication or intimation of this order therefor, shall allowed , &c.

be allowed them , in which to arrange and settle their affairs, and remove

with their families, effects, and property ; to which end, the necessary

safe conduct shall be given to them, and which shall serve as a sufficient

protection until they arrive at the designated port, and there embark. But this favour shall not be extended to those who shall act contrary to Exceptions.

the established laws. It is, nevertheless, to be understood, that the

persons so suspected may be ordered, by the respective Governments,

to remove forthwith into the interior , to such places as they shall think fit to designate.

ARTICLE XXIII.

Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation , to the indi-
viduals of the other, nor shares, nor money, which they may have in public funds, nor in public or private banks, shall ever, in any event of war or national difference, be sequestered or confiscated .
2R

Property of bcietiszeeqnsuensottetroed

494

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA . 1836.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Immunities of public agents.

Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, they have agreed , and do agree , to grant to their envoys , ministers , and other public agents, the same favors, immunities, and exemptions, as those of the most favored nation do or shall enjoy ; it being understood , that whatever favors, immunities, or privileges the United States of America, or the Peru-Bolivian Confederation , may find it proper to grant to the

envoys, ministers, and public agents of any other power, shall , by the same act, be granted and extended to those of the contracting parties, respectively.

ARTICLE XXV.

Consuls admitted into all
ports open to foreign commerce, except & c.

To make more effectual the protection which the United States of America and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation , shall afford in future to the navigation and commerce of the citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit consuls and vice-consuls, in all the ports open to
foreign commerce ; who shall enjoy, within their respective consular districts, all the rights, prerogatives, and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the most favored nation ; each contracting party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such functionaries may not seem convenient.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Consuls to ex- In order that the consuls and vice-consuls of the two contracting par-

hibit their commissions, & c.

ties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives, and immunities which belong to them by their public character, they shall, before entering on the exercises of their functions, exhibit their commission , or patent, in due form, to the Government to which they are accredited ; and, having received their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such consuls and

vice-consuls, by all the authorities, magistrates, and inhabitants in the

consular district in which they reside.

ARTICLE XXVII.

Privileges of consuls, & c.
Consular arcvhioilvaebslet.o be in

It is likewise agreed, that the consuls, vice-consuls, their secretaries, officers and persons attached to their service, (they not being citizens of the country in which the consul or vice-consul resides, ) shall be exempt from all public service, and also from all kinds of taxes, imposts, and contributions, except those which they shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce, or their property, and from which the citizens of their
respective country, resident in the other, are not exempt, in virtue of the stipulations contained in this treaty ; they being, in every thing besides, subject to the laws of the respective States. The archives and papers of the consulates shall be respected inviolably, and, under no pretext whatever, shall any magistrate, or other person, seize, or in any way interfere with them.

ARTICLE XXVIII .

Consuls, & c.
amsasiysrteanqcueiroeftthhee local authorities
to arrest deserters .

The said consuls and vice-consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the authorities of the country for the arrest, detention , and custody of deserters from the public and private vessels of their country ; and for this purpose they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, or officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing, proving, by an exhibition of the ship's roll , or other public document , that the men so demanded are part of the crew of the vessel from which

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

495

it is alleged they have deserted ; and on this demand, so proved, (saving,
however, when the contrary is more conclusively proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused . Such deserters, when arrested , shall be put at the
disposal of the said consuls or vice-consuls, and may be put in the public prisons, at the request and expense of those who reclaim them,
to be sent to the ships to which they belong or to others of the same nation ; but if they should not be so sent within two months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

Deserters, how to be disposed of.

ARTICLE XXIX.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree to form, as soon hereafter as may be mutually convenient, a consular convention, which shall declare, specially, the powers and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the respective parties.

Consular convention to be formed.

ARTICLE XXX.

The United States of America, and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation, desiring to make as durable as circumstances will permit the relations which are established between the two parties in virtue of this treaty, or general convention of peace, friendship, commerce, and navigation, have declared solemnly, and do agree, as follows :

Points agreed to .

1st. The present treaty shall be in force for twelve years from the day Duration of of the exchange of the ratifications thereof; and , further, until the end the treaty. of one year after either of the contracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention to terminate the same ; each of them re-
serving to itself the right of giving such notice to the other, at the end of said term of twelve years. And it is hereby agreed between the parties, that on the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either of them from the other, as above mentioned, this treaty shall, in all the points relating to commerce and navigation, altogether cease and determine ; and in all those parts which relate to peace and friendship , it shall be permanently and perpetually binding on both powers.

2dly. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen or citizens shall be held personally responsible therefor, and the harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby ; each party engaging, in no way, to protect the offender or offenders, or to sanction such violence, under pain of rendering itself liable for the consequences thereof.

Citizens per-
sonally respon sible for violations of this
treaty.

3dly. If, (which, indeed , cannot be expected, ) unfortunately, any of War not to be the stipulations contained in the present treaty shall be violated or in- dreecdrleasrsedhuanstil fringed in any other way whatever, it is expressly covenanted and agreed, been demand. that neither of the contracting parties will order, or authorize, any act ed, &c. of reprisals, nor declare or make war against the other, on complaint of injuries or damages resulting therefrom, until the party considering itself aggrieved shall first have presented to the other a statement or
representation of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proofs, and have demanded redress and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

4thly. Nothing in this treaty contained shall, however, be construed Other treaties
to operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with other not to be affect. ed by this.
States or sovereigns.

496

CONVENTION WITH PERU-BOLIVIA. 1836.

Ratifications to be exchanged within eighteen months.

The present treaty of peace, friendship, commerce, and navigation shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Supreme Protector of the north and south Peruvian States, President of the Republic of Bolivia, encharged with the direction of the foreign relations of the Peru-Bolivian Confederation ; and the ratifications shall be exchanged within eighteen months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner , if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries of the United States of
America, and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation , have signed and sealed these presents.

Done in the city of Lima, on the thirtieth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six.
SAMUEL LARNED, (L. 8.) J. GARCIA DEL RIO, (L. s.)

TREATY OF COMMERCE AND NAVIGATION

Dec. 1837. Between the United States of America and His Majesty the 22

Ratifications

King of Greece.

exchanged,

June 13 1838. 25

THE United States of America and His Majesty the King of Greece,

Proclamation equally animated with the sincere desire of maintaining the relations

of the President of good understanding which have hitherto so happily subsisted between of the U. S., their respective States ; of extending also, and consolidating the comAug. 30, 1838. Desire to main- mercial intercourse between them ; and convinced that this object can-

tain good under- not better be accomplished than by adopting the system of an entire standing, & c. freedom of navigation, and a perfect reciprocity, based upon principles

of equity, equally beneficial to both countries ; have, in consequence,

Negotiators.

agreed to enter into negotiations for the conclusion of a treaty of commerce and navigation, and for that purpose have appointed Plenipotentiaries : The President of the United States of America, Andrew Ste-

venson, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United

States, near the court of Her Britannic Majesty, and His Majesty the

King of Greece, Spiridion Tricoupi, Councillor of State on special

service, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, near the same court, Grand Commander of the Royal Order of the Saviour,

Grand Cross of the American order of Isabella , the Catholic, who, after

having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, have

agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Ports, & c. of eachparty, open to the other.
Citizens of each party at liberty to reside in the territories of the other.

The citizens and subjects of each of the two high contracting parties, may, with all security for their persons, vessels, and cargoes, freely enter the ports, places, and rivers of the territories of the other, wherever foreign commerce is permitted . They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories ; to rent and occupy houses and ware-houses for their commerce, and they shall enjoy, gene-
rally, the most entire security and protection in their mercantile transactions, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances of the respective countries.

ARTICLE II.

Tonnage duties, &c.

Greek vessels, arriving either laden or in ballast, into the ports ofthe United States of America, from whatever place they may come, shall be treated, on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage, light-houses, pilotage, and port charges, as well as to the perquisites of public officers, and all other duties or charges , of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever ; and , reciprocally, the vessels of the United States of America arriving either laden , or in ballast, into the ports of the Kingdom of Greece , from whatever place they may come, shall be treated, on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage, light-houses, pilotage, and port charges, as well as to the perquisites of public officers, and all other
(498)

TRAITÉ DE COMMERCE ET DE NAVIGATION
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amerique et sa Majesté le Roi de la Grèce.
Les Etats Unis d'Amérique et sa Majesté le Roi de la Grèce, également animé du désir sincère de maintenir les rapports de bonne intelligence qui ont si heureusement subsisté jusqu'ici, entre leurs etats respectifs, et d'en etendre et consolider les relations commerciales, et convaincus que cet objet ne saurait être mieux rempli qu'en adoptant le système d'une entière liberté de navigation et d'une parfaite reciprocité, basée sur des principes d'équité également avantageux aux deux pays ; sont en conséquence convenus d'entrer en négociation pour conclure un traité de commerce et de navigation, et ont nommé à cet effet des plenipotentiaires ; le President des Etats Unis d'Amérique, Andrew Stevenson, Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plenipotentiaire des Etats Unis près la cour de sa Majesté Britannique ; et sa Majesté le Roi de la Grèce le Sieur Spiridion Tricoupi , son Conseiller d'Etat en service Extraordinaire, son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire, près la même Cour, Grand Commandeur de l'Ordre Royal du Sauveur , Grand Croix de l'Ordre Americain de l'Isabelle la Catholique , les quels après avoir échangé leurs pleins pouvoirs trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté les articles suivans :
ARTICLE I.
Les citoyens et sujets de chacune des deux hautes parties contractantes, pourront avec toute sureté pour leurs personnes, vaisseaux et cargaisons, aborder librement dans les ports, places, et rivières, des territoires de l'autre, partout où le commerce étranger est permis, ils pourront s'y arrêter et résider dans quelque partie que ce soit, des dits territoires ; y louer et occuper des maisons et des magazins pour leur commerce, et jouiront généralement de la plus entière sécurité et protection pour les affaires de leur négoce, à charge de se soumettre aux lois et ordonnances des pays respectifs.
ARTICLE II.
Les batimens Grecs qui arriveront sur leur lest, ou chargés dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, seront traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour, et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les batimens nationaux venant de même lieu, par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux, de pilotage et de port, ainsi qu'aux vacations des officiers publics, et à tout autre droit ou charge, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'establissements particuliers quelconques.
Et réciproquement les batimens des Etats Unis d'Amerique qui arriveront sur leur lest ou chargés dans les ports du Royaume de la Grèce, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent , seront traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour, et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les batimens nationaux venant du même lieu , par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux, de pilotage, et de port, ainsi qu'aux vacations des officiers publics, et à
(499)

500

TREATY WITH GREECE . 1837.

duties or charges , of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever.

ARTICLE III.

Vessels of
U. S. may im. port into Greece whateverGreek vessels may, & c.

All that may be lawfully imported into the United States of America, in vessels of the said States, may also be thereinto imported in Greek vessels, from whatever place they may come, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if imported in national vessels.

Reciprocal as to Greek ves-
sels.

And reciprocally, all that may be lawfully imported into the Kingdom of Greece, in Greek vessels, may also be thereinto imported in vessels of the United States of America, from whatever place they may come,

without paying other or higher duties or charges , of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if imported in national vessels.

ARTICLE IV.

Vessels of U. S. may export from Greece whatever Greek vessels may, & c.

All that may be lawfully exported from the United States of America, in vessels of the said States, may also be exported therefrom in Greek vessels, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if exported in national vessels.

Reciprocal as to Greek ves-
sels in U. S.

And reciprocally, all that may be lawfully exported from the Kingdom of Greece, in Greek vessels, may also be exported therefrom in vessels of the United States of America , without paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination, levied in the name, or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishments whatsoever, than if exported in national vessels.

ARTICLE V.

Coasting trade excepted.

It is expressly understood , that the foregoing second, third, and fourth articles are not applicable to the coastwise navigation from one port of the United States of America, to another port of the said States, nor to the navigation of one port of the Kingdom of Greece, to another port of the said Kingdom ; which navigation each of the two high contracting parties reserves to itself.

ARTICLE VI.

Neither party to grant any
preference in its purchases, & c.

Each of the two high contracting parties, engages not to grant in its purchases, or in those which might be made by companies or agents, acting in its name, or under its authority, any preference to importations made in its own vessels, or in those of a third power, over those made in the vessels of the other contracting party.

ARTICLE VII.

No other or

The two high contracting parties engage not to impose upon he navi-

bhiegihmerpodsuetdie, scxt-o gation between their respective territories in the vessels of either, any tonnage or other duties of any kind , or denomination , which shall be
sept, & c.
higher or other than those which shall be imposed on every other navi-

gation , except that which they have reserved to themselves, respectively,

by the fifth article of the present treaty.

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

501

tout autre droit o charge de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'etablissemens particuliers quelconques.
ARTICLE III.
Tout ce qui pourra légalement être importe dans les Etats Unis d'Amerique, par batimens des dits Etats pourra également y etre importé par batimens Grecs, de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom, ou au profit du Gouvernement , des administrations locales , ou d'etablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'importation avait lieu en batimens nationaux.
Et réciproquement tout ce qui pourra légalement être importé dans le Royaume de la Grèce par batimens Grecs, pourra légalement y être importé par batimens des Etats Unis d'Amerique de quelque lieu qu'ils viennent, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des administrations locales, ou d'etablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'importation avait lieu en batimens nationaux.
ARTICLE IV.
Tout ce qui pourra légalement être exporté des Etats Unis d'Amérique par batimens des dits Etats, pourra également en être exporté par batimens Grecs, sans payer d'autres ou plus haut droits ou charge de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernment, des administrations locales, ou d'etablissemens particuliers quelconques, que si l'exportation avait lieu en batimens nationaux.
Et réciproquement, tout ce qui pourra légalement être exporté du Royaume de la Grèce par batimens Grecs, pourra également en être exporté par batimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres ou plus hauts droits ou charges de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus ou nom ou au profit du Gouvernement ; des administrations locales, ou d'etablissments particuliers quelconques, que si l'exportation avait lieu en batimens nationaux.
ARTICLE V.
Il est expressement entendu que les articles précédens, deux, trois et quatre, ne sont point applicables à la navigation de côte, ou de cabotage d'un port des Etats Unis d'Amerique à un autre port des dits Etats, ni à la navigation d'un port du Royaume de la Grèce à un autre port du même Royaume, navigation que chacune des deux hautes parties contractantes se réserve.
ARTICLE VI.
Chacune des deux hautes parties contractantes s'engage à ne donner dans ses achats, ou dans ceux qui seraient faits par des compagnies ou des agens agissant en son nom, ou sous son autorité aucune préférence aux importations faites par ses batimens, ou par ceux d'une nation tierce, sur celle faites dans les batimens de l'autre partie contractante.
ARTICLE VII.
Les deux hautes parties contractantes s'engagent à ne pas etablir sur la navigation entre leurs territoires respectifs, par les batimens de l'une ou de l'autre des droits de tonnage ou autres de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, plus hauts ou autres que ceux qui seront établis sur toute autre navigation, excepté celle qu'elles se sont respectivement reservée par l'article cinque du présent traité.

502

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

ARTICLE VIII.

No prohibition, b&lics.hteodbien Ue.stSa. on the products of Greece, unless, & c.
Same as to Greece.

There shall not be established in the United States of America, upon
the products of the soil, or industry of the Kingdom of Greece, any prohibition , or restriction, of importation or exportation, nor any duties of any kind or denomination whatsoever, unless such prohibitions, restrictions, and duties shall likewise be established upon articles of a like nature, the growth of any other country.
And, reciprocally, there shall not be established in the Kingdom of Greece, on the products of the soil, or industry of the United States of

America, any prohibition, or restriction, of importation or exportation, nor any duties of any kind or denomination whatsoever, unless such

prohibitions, restrictions, and duties, be likewise established upon articles of like nature, the growth of any other country.

ARTICLE IX.

All privileges of transit, & c. to become common.

All privileges of transit, and all bounties and drawbacks which may be allowed within the territories of one of the high contracting parties, upon the importation or exportation of any article whatsoever, shall
likewise be allowed on the articles of like nature, the products of the soil, or industry of the other contracting party, and on the importations and exportations made in its vessels.

ARTICLE X.

Vessels enter- The citizens or subjects of one of the high contracting parties, ar-

ing the ports of either party, but
not wishing to unload, may
depart.

riving with their vessels on the coasts belonging to the other, but not wishing to enter the port ; or, after having entered therein, not wishing to unload any part of their cargo, shall be at liberty to depart and continue their voyage without paying any other duties, imposts, or charges whatsoever, for the vessel and cargo, than those of pilotage, wharfage,

and for the support of lighthouses, when such duties shall be levied on Custom-house national vessels in similar cases. It is understood, however, that they

regulations, &c. to which they

shall

always conform to such regulations and ordinances

concerning

must conform. navigation and the places and ports which they may enter, as are, or

shall be, in force with regard to national vessels, and that the custom-

house officers shall be permitted to visit them, to remain on board, and to take all such precautions as may be necessary to prevent all unlawful commerce, as long as the vessels shall remain within the limits of their

jurisdiction .

ARTICLE XI.

Vessels un-

It is further agreed, that the vessels of one of the high contracting

:oading part of
their cargo,may depart without
paying duties on the remainder.

parties, having entered into the ports of the other, will be permitted to confine themselves to unloading such part only of their cargoes as the
captain or owner may wish, and that they may freely depart with the remainder, without paying any duties, imposts, or charges whatsoever,

except for that part which shall have been landed, and which shall be

marked upon and erased from the manifest exhibiting the enumeration of the articles with which the vessel was laden ; which manifest shall

be presented entire at the custom-house of the place where the vessel shall have entered . Nothing shall be paid on that part of the cargo

which the vessel shall carry away, and with which it may continue its

voyage to one or several other ports of the same country, there to dis-

pose of the remainder of its cargo, if composed of articles whose im-

portation is permitted on paying the duties chargeable upon it, or it may Duties charge proceed to any other country. It is understood, however, that all duties,

saebllse, ownhetrheevteos- imposts, or charges whatsoever, which are or may become chargeable

be paid.

upon the vessels themselves, must be paid at the first port where they

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

503

ARTICLE VIII.
Il ne pourra pas être établi dans les Etats Unis d'Amerique, sur les productions du sol ou de l'industrie de la Grèce, aucune prohibition ou restriction d'importation ou d'exportation , ni aucuns droits de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, qu'autant que ces prohibitions, ces restrictions, et ces droits seraient également établis sur les objets de même nature provenant de toute autre contrée.
Et réciproquement, il ne pourra pas être établi dans le Royaume de la Grèce, sur les productions du sol ou de l'industrie des États Unis d'Amerique aucune prohibition ou restriction d'importation ou d'exportation, ni aucuns droits, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, qu'autant que ces prohibitions, ces restrictions et ces droits, seraient également établis sur les objets de même nature, provenant de toute autre contrée.
ARTICLE IX.
Toute faculté d'entrepôt et toute primes et remboursemens de droits qui seraient accordés dans les territoires d'une des hautes parties contractantes, à l'importation ou à l'exportation de quelque objet que ce soit, seront également accordés aux objets de même nature, produits du sol ou de l'industrie de l'autre partie contractante, et aux importations et exportations faites dans ses batimens.
ARTICLE X.
Les citoyens ou sujets de l'une des hautes parties contractantes arrivant avec leurs batimens à l'une des côtes appartenants à l'autre, mais ne voulant pas entrer dans le port, ou , après y être entrés, ne voulant décharger aucune partie de leur cargaison , auront la liberté de partir et de poursuivre leur voyage, sans payer d'autres droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, pour le batiment ou la cargaison que les droits de pilotage, de quayage, et d'entretien de fanaux quand ces droits sont perçus sur les batimens nationaux dans les mêmes cas. Bien entendu , cependant
qu'ils se conformeront toujours aux réglemens et ordonnances concernant la navigation et les places ou ports dans les quels ils pourront aborder, qui sont, ou seront en vigueur pour les batimens nationaux, et qu'il sera permis aux officiers des douanes de les visiter, de rester à bord, et de prendre telles précautions qui pourraient être necessaires pour prévenir toute commerce illicite, pendant que les batimens resteront dans l'enceinte de leur jurisdiction.
ARTICLE XI.
Il est aussi convenu que les batimens de l'une des hautes parties contractantes, étant entrés dans les ports de l'autre pourront se borner à ne décharger qu'une partie de leur cargaison , selon que le capitaine ou proprietaire le désirera , et qu'ils pourront s'en aller librement avec le reste, sans payer de droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, que pour la partie qui aura été mise à terre, et qui sera marquée et biffeé sur le manifeste, qui contiendra l'énumeration des effets dont le batiment était chargé, lequel manifeste devra être presenté en entier à la douane du lieu, où le batiment aura abordé. Il ne sera rien payé pour la partie de la cargaison que le batiment remportera et avec laquelle il pourra continuer sa route pour un ou plusieurs autres ports du même pays, et y disposer du reste de sa cargaison , si elle est composée d'objets dont l'importation est permise, en payant les droits qui y sont applicables, ou bien il pourra s'en aller dans tout autre pays. Il est cependant entendu que les droits, impôts ou charges quelconques, qui sont ou seront payables pour les batimens mêmes, doivent être acquittés au premier port où ils rompraient le chargement ou en déchargeraient une partie, mais

504

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

shall break bulk, or unlade part of their cargoes ; but that no duties, imposts, or charges of the same description shall be demanded anew in the ports of the same country, which such vessels might afterwards wish to enter, unless national vessels be in similar cases, subject to some ulterior duties.

ARTICLE XII.

Consuls, & c. Their authority and privileges.
Archives , &c. of consulates exempt from search.

Each of the high contracting parties grants to the other the privilege of appointing in its commercial ports and places, consuls , vice-consuls, and commercial agents, who shall enjoy the full protection and receive every assistance necessary for the due exercise of their functions ; but
it is expressly declared that in case of illegal or improper conduct with respect to the laws or government of the country in which said consuls,
vice-consuls, or commercial agents, shall reside, they may be prosecuted and punished conformably to the laws, and deprived of the exercise of their functions by the offended Government, which shall acquaint the other with its motives for having thus acted ; it being understood, however, that the archives and documents relative to the affairs of the consulate shall be exempt from all search, and shall be carefully preserved under the seals of the consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents, and
of the authority of the place where they may reside.

Consuls, & c. to judge and taaribnitcraasteesi.n cer-
1846, ch. 105.

The consuls, vice- consuls, or commercial agents, or the persons duly authorized to supply their places, shall have the right as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or of the captain , should disturb the order or tranquillity of the country ; or the said consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents, should require their assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into effect or supported. It is, however, understood, that this species of judgment or arbitration shall not deprive the contending parties of the right they have to resort, on their return, to the judicial authority of their country.

ARTICLE XIII.

Consuls, & c.

The said consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents, are authorized

may require the to require the assistance of the local authorities for the arrest, detention,

assistance of the and imprisonment of the deserters from the ships of war and merchant

lfoocratlheautahrorreisttieosf vessels of their country, and for this purpose they shall apply to the

deserters.

competent tribunals, judges, and officers, and shall , in writing, demand

said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the registers of the vessels, the rolls of the crews, or by other official documents, that such indivi-

Deserters ,
when arrested, how to be disposed of.

duals formed part of the crews, and on this reclamation being thus substantiated , the surrender shall not be refused. Such deserters, when arrested, shall be placed at the disposal of the said consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents, and may be confined in the public prisons at the request and cost of those who claim them, in order to be sent to the

vessels to which they belonged, or to others of the same country. But

if not sent back within the space of two months, reckoning from the

day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause.

If a deserter

It is understood , however, that if the deserter should be found to have

should be guilty committed any crime or offence, his surrender may be delayed until the

of any crime, & c.

tribunal before which the case shall be depending, shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.

TREATY WITH GREECE . 1837.

505

qu'aucuns droits, impôts, ou charges pareils, ne seront démandés de nouveau, dans les ports du même pays, ou les dits batimens pourraient vouloir entrer, après, à moins que les batimens nationaux ne soient sujets à quelques droits ultérieurs dans le même cas.

ARTICLE XII.
Chacune des hautes parties contractantes, accorde à l'autre la faculté d'entretenir dans ses ports et places de commerce, des Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens de commerce, qui jouiront de toute la protection, et recevront toute l'assistance necessaire pour remplir duement leur fonctions ; mais il est expressément déclaré que dans le cas d'une conduite illégale ou impropre envers les lois ou le Gouvernement du pays dans lequel les dits Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens de commerce résideraient, ils pourront être poursuivis et punis conformément aux lois, et privés de l'exercise de leurs fonctions, par le Gouvernement offensé, qui fera connoitre à l'autre ses motifs pour avoir agi ainsi , bien entendu, cependant, que les archives et documens relatifs aux affaires du consulat seront à l'abri de toute recherche, et devront être soigneusement conservés sous le scellé des Consuls, Vice Consuls , ou Agens commerciaux, et de l'autorité de l'endroit ou ils résideraient.
Les Consuls , Vice Consuls, et Agens commerciaux, ou ceux qui seraient duement autorisés à les suppléer, auront le droit comme tels de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les differens qui pourraient s'éléver entre les capitaines et les équipages des batimens de la nation dont ils soignent les interêts, sans que les autorités locales puissent y entrevenir, à moins que la conduite des équipages ou du capitaine ne troublat l'ordre ou la tranquilité du pays, ou que les dits Consuls, Vice Consuls ou Agens commerciaux ne requissent leur intervention pour faire exécuter ou maintenir leurs décisions. Bien entendu que cette espèce de jugement ou d'arbitrage ne saurait pourtant priver les parties contendants du droit qu'elles ont à leur retour de recourir aux autorités judiciaires de leur patrie.

ARTICLE XIII .

Les dits Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens commerciaux seront auto-

risés à réquérir l'assistance des autorités locales pour l'arrestation, la

détention, et l'emprisonnement de déserteurs des navires de guerre et marchands de leur pays, et ils s'adresseront pour cet objet aux tribunaux,

juges, et officiers compétens et réclameront par écrit les déserteurs sus mentionnés, en prouvant par la communication des régistres des navires,

ou rôles de l'equipage, où par d'autres documens officiels que de tels

individus ont fait partie des dits équipages, et cette reclamation ainsi

prouvée, l'extradition ne sera point refusée.

De tels déserteurs, lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés, seront mis à la disposition des dits Consuls, Vice Consuls, ou Agens commerciaux, et pour-

ront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques à la réquisition et aux frais

de ceux que les reclament, pour être envoyés aux navires aux quels ils

appartenaient ou à d'autres de la même nation. Mais s'ils ne sont pas renvoyés dans l'espace de deux mois, à compter du jour de leur arresta-

tion, ils seront mis en liberté, et ne seront plus arrêtés pour la même cause.

Il est entendu toute fois que si le déserteur se trouvoit avoir commis

quelque crime ou délit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition jusqu'à ce

que le tribunal nanti de l'affaire, aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution .

VOL. VIII. 64

2S

506

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

ARTICLE XIV.

Assistance to
shipwrecked vessels, & c.

In case any vessel of one of the high contracting parties shall have been stranded or shipwrecked , or shall have suffered any other damage on the coasts of the dominions of the other, every aid and assistance shall be given to the persons shipwrecked, or in danger, and passports shall be granted to them to return to their country. The shipwrecked vessels and merchandise, or their proceeds, if the same shall have been sold, shall be restored to their owners, or to those entitled thereto, if claimed within a year and a day, upon paying such costs of salvage as would be paid by national vessels, in the same circumstances, and the salvage companies shall not compel the acceptance of their services, except in the same cases, and after the same delays as shall be granted to the captains and crews of national vessels. Moreover, the respective Governments will take care that these companies do not commit any vexatious or arbitrary acts.

ARTICLE XV.

Quarantine.

It is agreed, that vessels arriving directly from the United States of America, at a port within the dominions of his Majesty the King of Greece, or from the Kingdom of Greece, at a port of the United States of America, and provided with a bill of health, granted by an officer having competent power to that effect, at the port whence such vessels shall have sailed, setting forth that no malignant or contageous diseases prevailed in that port, shall be subjected to no other quarantine than such as may be necessary for the visit of the health officer of the port where such vessels shall have arrived , after which said vessels shall be allowed immediately to enter and unload their cargoes ; provided, always, that there shall be on board no person who, during the voyage, shall have been attacked with any malignant or contagious diseases ; that such vessels shall not during their passage have communicated with any vessel liable itself to undergo a quarantine, and that the country whence they came, shall not at that time be so far infected or suspected, that before their arrival, an ordinance had been issued , in consequence of which, all vessels coming from that country should be considered as suspected, and consequently subject to quarantine.

ARTICLE XVI,

Merchant vestsoelesntaetrteambpltoicnkgaded port, & c.

Considering the remoteness of the respective countries of the two high contracting parties, and the uncertainty resulting therefrom, with respect to the various events which may take place ; it is agreed, that a merchant vessel belonging to either of them, which may be bound to a port supposed at the time of its departure to be blockaded, shall not, however, be captured or condemned , for having attempted a first time to enter said port, unless it can be proved that said vessel could and ought to have learned during its voyage, that the blockade of the place in question still continued. But all vessels which after having been warned off once shall during the same voyage attempt a second time to enter the same blockaded port, during the continuance of said blockade, shall then subject themselves to be detained and condemned.

ARTICLE XVII .

Duration ofthe treaty.

The present treaty shall continue in force for ten years, counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and if, before the expiration of the first nine years, neither of the high contracting parties shall have announced by an official notification to the other its intention to

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

507

ARTICLE XIV.
Dans le cas où quelque batiment de l'une des hautes parties contractantes aura échoué, fait naufrage ou souffert quelque autre dommage sur les côtes de la domination de l'autre, il sera donné tout aide et assistance aux personnes naufragées ou qui se trouveraient en danger, et il leur sera accordé des passeports pour retourner dans leur patrie. Les batimens et les marchandises naufragés, ou leurs produits s'ils ont été vendus , seront restitueés à leurs propriétaires ou ayant cause, s'ils sont réclamés dans l'an et jour, en payant les frais de sauvetage que payeroient les batimens nationaux dans les mêmes cas, et les compagnies de sauvetage ne pourront faire accepter leurs services, que dans les mêmes cas, et après les mêmes délais qui seraient accordés aux capitaines et aux équipages nationaux. Les Gouvernmens respectifs veilleront d'ailleurs à ce que ces compagnies ne se permettent point de vexations ou d'actes arbitraires.
ARTICLE XV.
11 est convenu que les batimens qui arriveront directement des Etats Unis d'Amerique, à un port de la domination de Sa Majesté le Roi de la Grece, ou du Royaume de la Grèce à un port des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et qui seroient pourvus d'un certificat de santé donné par l'officier compétent à cet égard du port d'où les batimens sont sortis, et assurant qu'aucune maladie maligne ou contagieuse n'existait dans ce port, ne seront soumis à aucune autre quarantaine que celle qui sera nécessaire pour la visite de l'officier de santé du port où les batimens seroient arrivés, après la quelle il sera permis à ces batimens d'entrer immédiatement et de décharger leurs cargaisons ; bien entendu , toute fois, qu'il n'y ait eu personne à leur bord qui ait été attaqué pendant le voyage d'une maladie maligne, ou contagieuse ; que les batimens n'aient point communiqué dans leur traversée avec un batiment qui serait lui même dans le cas de subir une quarantaine, et que la contrée d'où ils viendraient ne fut pas a cette époqué si généralement infectée ou suspectée qu'on ait rendu avant leur arrivée, une ordonnance d'après la quelle tous les batimens venant de cette contrée seraient régardés comme suspects, et, en conséquence, assujettis à une quarantaine.
ARTICLE XVI.
Vû l'éloignement des pays respectifs des deux hautes parties contractantes , et l'incertitude qui en resulte sur les divers événemens qui peuvent avoir lieu , il est convenu qu'un batiment marchand appartenant à l'une d'elles qui se trouverait destiné pour un port supposé bloqué au moment du départ de ce batiment, ne sera cependant pas capturé ou condamné pour avoir essayé une prémière fois d'entrer dans le dit port, à moins qu'il ne puisse être prouvé que le dit batiment avait pu et du apprendre en route que l'Etat de blocus de la place en question durait encore ; mais les batimens qui après avoir été renvoyés une fois essayeraient, pendant le même voyage d'entrer une seconde fois dans le même port bloqué, durant la continuation de ce blocus se trouveront alors sujet à être détenus et condamnés.
ARTICLE XVII.
Le présent traité sera en vigueur pendant dix années à partir du jour de l'échange des ratifications ; et si avant l'expiration des neufs premières années l'une ou l'autre des Hautes Parties Contractantes n'avait
pas annoncée à l'autre, par une notification officielle , son intention d'en

508

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

arrest the operation of said treaty, it shall remain binding for one year beyond that time, and so on, until the expiration of the twelve months which will follow a similar notification, whatever the time at which it may take place.

ARTICLE XVIII.

Ratifications to
be exchanged in 12 months.

The present treaty shall be ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and by His Majesty the King of Greece, and the ratifications to be exchanged at London, within the space of twelve months, from the signature, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries of the high contracting parties, have signed the present treaty, both in English and French, and have affixed thereto their seals.

tenth

Done in duplicate at London, the

of December, in the

twenty-second

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven.

A. STEVENSON, (L. s.)

S. TRICOUPI,

(L. S.)

TREATY WITH GREECE. 1837.

509

faire cesser l'effet, ce traité restera obligatoire une année au dela, et ainsi de suite jusqu'à l'expiration des douze mois, qui suivront une semblable notification à quelqu'époque qu'elle ait lieu.

ARTICLE XVIII.
Le présent traité sera ratifié par le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat, et par sa Majesté le Roi de la Grèce, et les ratifications en seront échangées à Londres dans l'espace de douze mois, ou ploutôt, si faire se peut.

En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires respectifs des deux hautes parties contractantes ont signé le présent traité en Anglais et Français, et y ont apposé leurs scéaux.

dix

Fait en duplicate à Londres le

de Décembre, l'an de

vingt-deux

Grâce mil huit cent trente sept.

S. TRICOUPI,

(L. 8.)

A. STEVENSON, ( L. 8.

282

CONVENTION

April 11 , 1838.
Ratifications exchanged, July 6, 1838.
Proclamation of the President of the U. S., July 6, 1838.

Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Texas, to terminate the reclamations of the former Government, for the capture, seizure, and detention of the brigs Pocket, and Durango, and for injuries suffered by American citizens on board the Pocket.

ALCÉE LA BRANCHE , Chargé d'Affaires ofthe United States ofAmerica, near the Republic of Texas, acting on behalf of the said United States of America, and R. A. Irion , Secretary of State of the Republic of Texas, acting on behalf of the said Republic, have agreed to the following articles.

Texas agrees
to indemnify U.S.

ART. 1. The Government of the Republic of Texas, with a view to satisfy the aforesaid reclamations for the capture, seizure, and confiscation of the two vessels aforementioned, as well as for indemnity to American citizens who have suffered injuries from the said Government of Texas, or its officers, obliges itself to pay the sum of eleven thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars , ( $ 11,750 , ) to the Government of the United States of America, to be distributed amongst the claimants by the said Government of the United States of America.

Payment of said indemnity.

ART. 2. The sum of eleven thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars, ( 11,750 , ) agreed on in the first article shall be paid in gold or silver, with interest at six per cent. one year after the exchange of the ratifications of this convention. The said payment shall be made at the seat of Government of the Republic of Texas, into the hands of such person or persons as shall be duly authorized by the Government of the United States of America to receive the same.

Ratifications to ART. 3. The present convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications

be exchanged thereof shall be exchanged in the city of Washington, in the space of within three

months.

three months from this date, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, the parties above named have respectively subscribed these articles, and thereto affixed their seals.

Done at the city of Houston, on the eleventh day of the month of April, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight.

ALCÉE LA BRANCHE, (L. s. )

R. A. IRION,

(L. S.)

(510)

CONVENTION

Between the United States of America and the Republic of April 25, 1838.

Texas, for marking the boundary between them. (a)
WHEREAS the treaty of limits made and concluded on the twelfth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight between the United States of America on the one part and the United Mexican States on the other, is binding upon the Republic of Texas, the same having been entered into at a time when Texas formed a part of the said United Mexican States :
And whereas it is deemed proper and expedient in order to prevent future disputes and collisions between the United States and Texas in regard to the boundary between the two countries as designated by the said treaty, that a portion of the same should be run and marked without unnecessary delay :
The President of the United States has appointed John Forsyth, their plenipotentiary, and the President of the Republic of Texas has appointed Memucan Hunt its plenipotentiary :
And the said plenipotentiaries having exchanged their full powers, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Ratifications exchanged, Oct. 12, 1838. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S.,
Oct. 13, 1838 .
(a) See ante, page 372.

ART. 1. Each of the contracting parties shall appoint a commissioner and surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of twelve months from the exchange of the ratifications of this convention , at New Orleans, and proceed to run and mark that portion of the said boundary which

Commissioner
and surveyor to be appointed, to run the bound. ary line.

extends from the mouth of the Sabine, where that river enters the Gulph

of Mexico, to the Red river. They shall make out plans and keep

journals of their proceedings, and the result agreed upon by them shall

be considered as part of this convention, and shall have the same force

as if it were inserted therein. The two Governments will amicably

agree respecting the necessary articles to be furnished to those per-

sons, and also as to their respective escorts, should such be deemed

necessary.

ART. 2. And it is agreed that until this line shall be marked out, as is provided for in the foregoing article, each of the contracting parties shall continue to exercise jurisdiction in all territory over which its jurisdiction has hitherto been exercised, and that the remaining portion of the said boundary line shall be run and marked at such time hereafter as may suit the convenience of both the contracting parties, until which time each of the said parties shall exercise without the interference of the other, within the territory of which the boundary shall not have been so marked and run , jurisdiction to the same extent to which it has been heretofore usually exercised.

Each party to
deixcetricoinseunjtuirlist-he line is marked.

ART. 3. The present convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications Ratifications tc

shall be exchanged at Washington, within the term of six months from be exchanged

within six

the date hereof, or sooner if possible.

months.

In witness whereof, we, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have hereunto affixed our respective seals. Done at Washington, this twenty-fifth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-eight, in the sixty-second year of the independence of the United States of America, and in the third of that of the Republic of Texas.

JOHN FORSYTH, MEMUCAN HUNT.

(L. s.) ( L. S. )
(511)

Nov. 26 , 1838.

TREATY WITH SARDINIA .

Ratifications exchanged, March 18, 1839. THE United States of America and his Majesty the King of Sardinia Proclamation desirous of consolidating the relations of good understanding which
of the President have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective States and of the U. S., March 18 , 1839. of facilitating and extending the commercial intercourse between the
two countries, have agreed to enter into negotiations for the conclusion
of a treaty of commerce and navigation, for which purpose the Presi
dent of the United States has conferred full powers on Nathaniel Niles,
their special agent near his Sardinian Majesty, and his Majesty the King
of Sardinia has conferred like powers on the Count Clement Solar de la
Marguerite, Grand Cross ofthe military and religious order of S. Maurice
and S. Lazarus, of Isabella the Catholic of Spain , and Knight ofthe order
of Christ, his first Secretary of State for the Foreign Affairs ; and the
said plenipotentiaries having exchanged their full powers, found in good
and due form, have concluded and signed the following articles.

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal liberty of com-
merce and nav igation .

There shall be between the territories of the high contracting parties a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. The inhabitants of their respective States shall mutually have liberty to enter the ports and commercial places of the territories of each party, wherever foreign commerce is permitted. They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories in order to attend to their affairs, and they shall enjoy to that effect the same security and protection as the natives of the country wherein they reside, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing.

ART. II.

Vessels of either party, arriving in the ports of the other, put on the footing of
national vessels.

Sardinian vessels arriving either laden or in ballast in the ports of the United States of America, and reciprocally vessels of the United States arriving either laden or in ballast in the ports of the dominions of his Sardinian Majesty, shall be treated on their entrance, during their stay and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with respect to the duties of tonnage, light-houses,

pilotage and port charges, as well as to the fees and perquisites of

public officers and other duties or charges of whatever kind or denomi nation, levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local

authorities or of any private establishment whatsoever.

ART. III.

Importations by American vdeisnsieal. s into Sar-
Importations by Sardinian vessels into U.S.

All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce either the produce of the soil or the industry of the United States of America or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the dominions of Sardinia in Sardinian vessels, may also be so imported in vessels of the United States of America without paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities or of any private establishment whatsoever, than if the same merchandise or produce had been imported in Sardinian vessels. And reciprocally all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, either the produce of the soil , or of the industry of the dominions of Sardinia or of any other country, which may be lawfully imported into the ports of the United States, in vessels of the said States, may also be so imported in Sardinian vessels , without
(512)

TRAITÉ À SARDAIGNE .

LES Etats Unis d'Amérique, et sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne désirant consolider les rapports de bonne intelligence qui ont si heureusement subsisté jusqu'ici entre leurs Etats respectifs, et de faciliter et étendre les relations commerciales entre les deux pays, sont convenus d'entrer en négociation pour conclure un traité de commerce et de navigation. A cet effet le Président des Etats Unis a muni de pleins pouvoirs Nathaniel Niles, leur agent spécial auprès de sa Majesté Sarde ; et sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne le Comte Clément Solar de la Marguerite Chevalier Grand Cordon de l'ordre religieux et militaire de S. Maurice et S. Lazare, Grande Croix de l'ordre d'Isabelle la Catholique d'Espagne , et Chevalier de l'ordre du Christ, son premier Secrétaire d'Etat pour les Affaires Etrangères ; lesquels plénipotentiaires après avoir échangé leurs pleins pouvoirs trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arreté et signé les articles suivans :

ARTICLE I.

Il y aura entre les territoires des hautes parties contractantes, liberté et réciprocité de commerce et de navigation. Les habitans de leurs Etats respectifs pourront entrer librement dans les ports des territoires de chacune d'elles, partout où le commerce étranger est permis. Ils pourront séjourner ou résider librement dans quelque partie que ce soit des dits territoires, pour y vaquer à leurs affaires, et ils jouiront à cet effet de la même sécurité et protection que les habitans du pays dans lequel ils resident, à la condition toutefois de se soumettre aux loix et aux règlemens qui y sont en vigueur.

ART. II.
Les bâtimens Sardes arrivant chargés ou sur lest dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et réciproquement les bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique arrivant chargés ou sur lest dans les ports de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne, seront traités à leur entrée, pendant leur séjour et à leur sortie, sur le même pied que les bâtimens nationaux venant des mêmes parages, par rapport aux droits de tonnage, de fanaux, de pilotage, de péage, aux droits de port, vacations d'officiers publics, ainsi qu'à toutes les taxes et charges de quelque espèce ou dénomination que se soit, perçues au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques.

ART. III.

Toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis d'Amérique, ou de tout autre pays,

qui pourront légalement être importés dans les ports des Etats de sa

Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne par des bâtimens Sardes, pourront également y être importés par des bâtimens des Etats Unis sans être tenus à

payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que ceux que ces

mêmes marchandises ou produits payeraient dans le même cas s'ils

étaient importés sur des batimens Sardes. Et réciproquement, toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du royaume de Sardaigne ou de tout autre pays, qui pourron:

être légalement importés dans les Etats Unis d'Amérique par des bâti-

VOL VIII. 65

(513)

514

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomination levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever, than ifthe same merchandise or produce had been imported in vessels of United States of America.

ART. IV.

Preceding stip- To prevent the possibility of any misunderstanding, it is hereby de-

ulations, how clared that the stipulations contained in the two preceding articles are

applicable.

to their full extent applicable to Sardinian vessels and their cargoes

arriving in the ports of the United States of America. And reciprocally to vessels of the said States, and their cargoes arriving in the ports of

the dominions of Sardinia, whether the said vessels clear directly from

the ports of the country to which they respectively belong, or from the ports of any other foreign country.

ART. V.

Sardinian ves- All kind of merchandise and articles of commerce, which may lawfully

Bels may export be exported from the ports of the United States of America in national

f&rco.m the U. S., vessels, may also be exported therefrom in Sardinian vessels without

paying other or higher duties or charges of whatever kind or denomina-

tion levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local

authorities, or of any private establishment whatsoever, than if the same

U.S. vessels
may export from Sardinia, & c.

merchandise or articles of commerce had been exported in vessels of the United States of America. And reciprocally all kind of merchandise and articles of commerce which may be lawfully exported from the ports of the kingdom of Sardinia in national vessels, may also be exported

therefrom in vessels of the United States of America, without paying other or higher duties, or charges of whatever kind or denomination

levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authori-

ties or of any private establishment whatsoever , than if the same mer-

chandise or articles of commerce had been exported in Sardinian vessels.

ART. VI.

No other or

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into

higher duties to the United States of any article the produce or manufacture of Sardinia :

be imposed on and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into importations,

& c.

the kingdom of Sardinia of any article the produce or manufacture of

the United States than are or shall be payable on the same article being the produce, or manufacture of any other foreign country. Nor shall

any prohibition be imposed on the importation or exportation of any article the produce of, or the manufacture of the United States or of Sardinia, to or from the ports of the United States, or to or from the ports of the kingdom of Sardinia which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ART . VII.

Coasting trade excepted.

It is expressly understood and agreed that the preceding articles do
not apply to the coastwise navigation of either of the two countries, which each of the two high contracting parties reserves exclusively to itself.
ART. VIII .

No preference No priority or preference shall be given directly or indirectly by either
toof biempgoirvteantiboyns of the high contracting parties, nor by any company corporation or either party. agent acting in their behalf, or under their authority in the purchase of

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

515

mens de ces mêmes Etats, pourront également y être importés par des bâtimens Sardes, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'un établissement particulier quelconque, que ceux que ces mêmes marchandises ou produits payeraient dans le même cas s'ils étaient importés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique.
ART. IV .
Afin de prévenir toute espèce de mésentendu, il est convenu que les dispositions contenues dans les articles 2 et 3 sont applicables dans toute leur étendue aux bâtimens Sardes et à leurs cargaisons, arrivant dans les ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et réciproquement aux bâtimens des dits Etats et à leurs cargaisons arrivant dans les ports de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne, soit que ces bâtimens viennent directement des ports du pays auquel ils appartiennent, soit de ceux de tout autre pays étranger.
ART. V.
Toute espèce de marchandises et objets de commerce qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports des Etats Unis d'Amérique sur des bâtimens nationaux, pourront en être également exportés sur des bâtimens Sardes, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'un établissement particulier quelconque que ceux qui seraient payés pour les mêmes marchandises et objets de commerce qui auraient été exportes sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique ; et réciproquement toute espèce de marchandises ou objets de commerce qui pourront être légalement exportés des ports de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne sur des bâtimens nationaux pourront également en être exportés sur des bâtimens des Etats Unis d'Amérique, sans payer d'autres ou de plus forts droits ou charges, de quelque espèce ou dénomination que ce soit, perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales, ou d'établissemens particuliers quelconques, que ceux qui seraient payés pour les mêmes marchandises ou objets de commerce, s'ils avaient été exportés sur des bâtimens Sardes.
ART. VI.
Il ne sera imposé d'autres ou de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans les Etats Unis d'Amérique de tout article provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du royaume de Sardaigne, et il ne sera imposé d'autres ou de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans le royaume de Sardaigne de tout article provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, que ceux qui sont ou seront imposés sur de semblables articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de tout autre pays étranger. De même on ne mettra aucune entrave ou prohibition quelconque à l'importation ou à l'exportation de tout article provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis d'Amérique ou du royaume de Sardaigne, à l'entrée ou à la sortie des ports de chaques pays, qui ne soit pas également applicable à toute autre nation.
ART. VII.
Il est expressément entendu que les articles, précédens ne sont point applicables à la navigation de côte ou cabotage de chacun des deux pays que l'une et l'autre des deux nations se reservent exclusivement.

ART. VIII .
Aucune priorité ou préférence quelconque ne sera accordée directement ou indirectement par l'une ou l'autre des parties contractantes, ni par aucune compagnie, corporation ou agent agissant en son nom ou

516

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

any article of commerce lawfully imported on account of, or in reference to the character of the vessel, whether it be of the one party or the other, in which such article was imported, it being the true intent and
meaning of the contracting parties, that no distinction or difference whatever shall be made in this respect.

ART. IX.

Favors granted by either party ttoo botehceormneatcioonms., mon.

If either party shall hereafter grant to any other nation any particular favor in commerce or navigation, it shall immediately become common to the other party, freely where it is freely granted to such other nation, or on yielding the same or an equivalent compensation when the grant is conditional.

ART. X.

Vessels, & c. to be on the
same footing as those of the most favored nations.

Vessels of either of the high contracting parties arriving on the coasts
of the other, but without the intention to enter a port, or having entered not wishing to discharge the whole, or any part of their cargoes, shall enjoy in this respect the same privileges, and be treated in the same manner as the vessels of the most favored nations.

Assistance in case of shipwreck, & c.

ART. XI.
When any vessel belonging to either of the contracting parties, or to their citizens, or subjects shall be wrecked, foundered, or otherwise suffer damage on the coasts, or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to such vessel and all persons on board every aid and protection, in like manner as is usual and customary to vessels of the nation where such shipwreck or damage happens, and such shipwrecked vessel, its merchandise, and other effects, or their proceeds, if the same shall have been sold , shall be restored to their owners, or to those entitled to receive them, upon the payment of such costs of salvage as would have been paid by national vessels in the same circumstances.

ART. XII.

Vessels forced into port, & c., exempt from port charges, provided, & c.

Sardinian merchant vessels being forced from stress of weather or other unavoidable causes to enter a port of the United States of America, and reciprocally, merchant vessels of the said States, entering the ports of his Sardinian Majesty from similar causes, shall be exempt from port charges and all other duties levied to the profit of the Government, in case the causes which have rendered such entry necessary are real and

evident, provided such vessel does not engage in any commercial ope-

ration while in port, such as loading and unloading merchandize, it being understood nevertheless that the unloading , and reloading rendered necessary for the repair of the said vessel shall not be considered an act

of commerce affording ground for the payment of duties, and provided also that the said vessel shall not prolong her stay in port beyond the

time necessary for the repair of her damages.

ART. XIII .

Vessels at-

Considering the remoteness of the respective countries of the two

tempting to en- high contracting parties, and the uncertainty resulting therefrom with
ptoerrta, &blco.ckaded respect to the various events which may take place, it is agreed that a merchant vessel , belonging to either of them which may be bound to a

port supposed, at the time of its departure to be blockaded, shall not

however be captured, or condemned for having attempted a first time to

enter said port, unless it can be proved that said vessel could, and ought

to have learned during its voyage, that the blockade of the place in

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

517

par son autorité, pour l'achat d'aucun objet de commerce, légalement importé par considération ou préférence pour la nationalité, du bâtiment qui aurait importé les dits objets, soit qu'il appartienne à l'une ou à l'autre des parties dans les ports de laquelle ces objets de commerce auront été importés, l'intention et la volonté précise des hautes parties contractantes, étant qu'aucune différence ou distinction quelconque n'ait licu à cet égard.
ART. IX .
Si par la suite l'une des parties contractantes accordait quelque faveur spéciale à d'autres nations en fait de commerce ou de navigation, cette faveur deviendra immédiatement commune à l'autre partie qui en jouira sans charge d'aucune espèce, si elle a été accordée gratuitement à l'autre nation, ou en accordant la même compensation ou une autre équivalente, si la concession a été conditionelle.
ART. X.
Les bâtimens de l'une des deux parties contractantes abordant à quelque côte de la dépendance de l'autre, mais n'ayant pas l'intention d'entrer au port, ou y étant entrés ne voulant pas y décharger tout ou une partie de leur cargaison, jouiront des mêmes privilèges et seront traités à cet égard de la même manière que les bâtimens des nations les plus favorisées.
ART. XI.
S'il arrivait qu'un vaisseau appartenant à l'une des deux parties contractantes ou bien à ses citoyens ou sujets, fit naufrage, sombrât, ou souffrit quelqu'autre dommage sur les côtes ou dans les Etats soumis à l'autre partie, il sera accordé à ces navires et à toutes les personnes qui seront à bord le même secours et la même protection dont jouissent ordinairement les bâtimens de la nation où le naufrage a eu lieu ; et ces vaisseaux naufragés les marchandises ou autres effets qu'ils contiendront, ou leur produit, si ces objets avaient été déjà vendus, seront restitués à leurs propriétaires ou à leurs ayant droit, en payant un droit de sauvetage égal à celui qui serait payé dans le même cas, par un vaisseau national.
ART. XII.
Tout bâtiment de commerce Sarde entrant en relâche forcée dans un
port des Etats Unis d'Amérique ; et réciproquement tout bâtiment de commerce des dits Etats entrant en relâche forcée dans un port de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne, y sera exempt de tout droit de port et de navigation, perçu ou à percevoir au profit de l'Etat, si les causes qui ont nécessité la relâche sont réelles et évidentes, pourvu qu'ils ne se livrent dans le port de relâche à aucune opération de commerce en chargeant où déchargeant des marchandises ; bien entendu toutefois que les déchargemens et rechargemens motivés par l'obligation de réparer le bâtiment ne seront point considérés comme opérations de commerce donnant ouverture au payement des droits, et pourvu que le bâtiment ne prolonge pas son séjour dans le port au delà du tems nécessaire d'après les causes qui auront donné lieu à la relâche.
ART. XIII .
Vu l'éloignement des pays respectifs des deux hautes parties contractantes et l'incertitude qui en résulte sur les divers évènemens qui peuvent avoir lieu ; il est convenu qu'un bâtiment marchand appartenant à l'une d'elles qui se trouverait destiné pour un port supposé bloqué au moment du départ de ce bâtiment, ne sera cependant pas capturé ou condamné pour avoir essayé une première fois d'entrer dans le dit port à moins qu'il ne puisse être prouvé que le dit bâtiment avait pu et dû apprendre en route que l'état du blocus de la place en question du-
2T

518

TREATY WITH SARDINIA . 1838.

question still continued. But all vessels which after having been warned off once, shall, during the same voyage, attempt a second time to enter the same blockaded port during the continuance of the said blockade, shall then subject themselves to be detained and condemned.

ART. XIV .

Articles of commerce allowed to pass from Genoa

All articles of commerce the growth or manufacture of the United States of America, and the products of their fisheries, with the exception of salt, gunpowder and tobacco manufactured for use, shall be per-

through the mitted to pass in transitu from the free port of Genoa through the terri-

Sardinian territories of his Sardinian Majesty to any point of the inland frontier of tories, & c.
the said territories, and vice versa, all articles of commerce coming from

any one point of the Sardinian inland frontier destined for the United

States, shall be permitted to pass the territories of his Sardinian Majesty to the free port of Genoa without being liable to the payment of any

duty whatever levied in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local authorities or of any private establishment whatsoever, other than such as are required to meet the expenses of the necessary pre-

cautionary measures against smuggling, which precautionary measures to be observed in regard to transit to the frontier shall be the same whether the said articles of commerce are imported by the vessels of

Notice of any transit duty to
be given.

the one or of the other of the high contracting parties. But ifpeculiar circumstances or considerations should render the re-establishment of
transit duties necessary on the said articles of commerce directed to any one point of the Sardinian frontier, the Sardinian Government, in re-

serving to itselfthe full right to establish such duty, engages to notify tothe Government of the United States such determination six months before

Articles im- any such transit duty shall be exacted . It is also understood that all

ported directly articles of commerce imported directly from the United States of Ame-

from U.S. to be rica shall be taken and considered as the products of the said States, considered as

the produce and shall be entitled equally and in like manner, with the exceptions

thereof.

above mentioned in the present article, to a free transit through the ter-

ritories of his Sardinian Majesty.

ART. XV .

Each party to have consuls , & c. in each other's ports.
Of consuls en gaging in commerce.

The two high contracting parties reciprocally grant to each other the liberty of having each in the ports and other commercial places of the other, consuls, vice-consuls and commercial agents of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges, powers and exemptions as those of the most favoured nations. But if any of such consuls shall exercise commerce, they shall be subjected to the same laws and usages to which the private individuals of their nation , or subjects or citizens of the most favored nations are subject in the same places, in respect to their commercial transactions.

ART . XVI.

In case of citi-
zens of one party being appointed consuls by the other.

It is especially understood that whenever either of the two contracting parties shall select for a consular agent to reside in any port or commercial place of the other party a subject or citizen of this last, such consul or agent shall continue to be regarded, notwithstanding his quality of a foreign consul, as a subject or citizen of the nation to which he belongs, and consequently shall be submitted to the laws and regulations to which natives are subjected in the place of his residence. This obligation however shall in no respect embarrass the exercise of his consular functions, or affect the inviolability of the consular archives.
ART. XVII.

The said consuls , vice-consuls and commercial agents are authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities for the search, arrest,

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

519

rait encore. Mais les bâtimens qui, après avoir été renvoyés une première fois, essayeraient pendant le même voyage d'entrer une seconde fois dans le même port bloqué durant la continuation de ce blocus, se trouveront alors sujets à être détenus et condamnés.
ART. XIV .
Les articles de commerce, produits du sol ou des manufactures des Etats Unis d'Amérique, et des pêches de ce pays, excepté le sel, la poudre à canon et le tabac fabriqué, pourront librement passer du portfranc de Gênes à travers le territoire de sa Majesté Sarde à un point quelconque de la frontière intérieure du dit territoire ; et vice versa tous les articles de commerce venant par un point quelconque de la frontière intérieure Sarde, qui seront destinés pour les Etats Unis, pourront_traverser les Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne jusqu'au port-franc de Gênes sans être tenus de payer aucune espèce de droit perçus au nom ou au profit du Gouvernement, des autorités locales ou d'un etablissement particulier quelconque excepté ceux nécessaires pour couvrir les frais qu'exigent les précautions et les mesures contre la fraude et la contreband' , et qui ne seraient pas également applicables au transit des mêmes articles importés par les bâtimens de l'une ou l'autres des hautes parties contractantes. Mais si par des circonstances et des motifs particuliers il était jugé convenable ou nécessaire de retablir des droits de transit sur les articles susmentionnés dirigés par un point de la frontière Sarde, le Gouvernement de S. M. le Roi de Sardaigne s'en reserve le plein droit, s'engageant toutefois à notifier cette détermination au Gouvernement des Etats Unis six mois avant son exécution. Il
est aussi convenu que tous les articles de commerce importés directement des Etats Unis d'Amérique seront reçus et considérés comme des produits des dits Etats et en cette qualité, auront également droit au libre transit à travers les Etats de sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne, sauf les exceptions mentionnés dans le présent article.

ART. XV.
Les deux hautes parties contractantes s'accordent mutuellement le droit d'envoyer dans les ports et villes commerçantes de leurs Etats respectifs des consuls, vice-consuls et agens commerciaux nommés par elles qui jouiront des mêmes privilèges, pouvoirs et exemptions dont jouissent ceux des nations les plus favorisées ; mais dans le cas où quelques uns de ces consuls voudraient exercer le commerce, ils seront tenus de se soumettre aux mêmes loix et usages aux quels sont soumis dans le même lieu par rapport à leurs transactions commerciales, les particuliers de leur nation , et les sujets des états les plus favorisés.
ART. XVI .
Il est spécialement entendu que lorsqu'une partie contractante choisira pour son agent consulaire pour resider dans un port ou une ville commerçante de l'autre partie un sujet ou citoyen de celle-ci , ce consul ou agent continuera à être considéré malgré sa qualité de consul étranger, comme sujet ou citoyen de la nation à laquelle il appartient et qu'il sera par conséquent soumis aux loix et règlemens qui régissent les nationaux dans le lieu de sa résidence , sans que cette obligation puisse cependant gêner en rien l'exercice de ses fonctions consulaires, ni porter atteinte à l'inviolabilité des archives consulaires.
ART. XVII.
Les dits consuls , vice-consuls et agens commerciaux seront autorisés à requérir l'assistance des autorités locales pour la recherche, l'arresta-

520

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

Consuls, & c. may require the aid of the civil authorities

detention, and imprisonment of the deserters from the ships of war and merchant vessels of their country. For this purpose they shall applyto
the competent tribunals, judges, and officers, and shall, in writing, de-

to arrest desert- mand said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the registers of the

ers.

vessels, the rolls of the crews, or by other official documents that such

individuals formed part of the crews ; and this reclamation thus substantiated, the surrender shall not be refused. Such deserters when

arrested shall be placed at the disposal of the said consuls, vice-consuls

or commercial agents and may be confined in the public prisons at the request and cost of those who shall claim them in order to be detained

until the time when they shall be restored to the vessels to which they

Deserters must be sent back within three months.

belonged, or sent back to their own country by a vessel of the same nation or any other vessel whatsoever. But if not sent back within three months from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty and shall not again be arrested for the same cause. If however the
deserter should be found to have committed any crime or offence, his

surrender may be delayed until the tribunal before which his case should

be depending shall have pronounced its sentence and such sentence shall have been carried into execution.

ART. XVIII.

Power to dis- The citizens and subjects of each of the contracting parties shall have

pose of personal power to dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the goods, & c.
other, by testament, donation, or otherwise, and their representatives,

being citizens or subjects of the other party, shall succeed to their said

personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof either by themselves or by others acting for them and

dispose of the same at will , paying such taxes and dues only as the in-

habitants of the country wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases. And in case of the absence of the representatives

such care shall be taken of the said goods as would be taken of the

goods of a native of the same country in like case until the lawful owner

may take measures for receiving them. And if a question should arise

among several claimants as to which of them said goods belong, the

same shall finally be decided by the laws and judges of the land wherein

In case of real estate, alien heirs allowed time to dispose of the same.

the said goods are. And where on the death of any person holding real estate within the territories of one of the contracting parties such real
estate would by the laws of the land descend on a citizen or subject of the other party who by reason of alienage may be incapable of holding it, he shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell such real estate, and to

withdraw and export the proceeds without molestation and without pay-

ing to the profit of the respective Governments any other dues, taxes or

charges than those to which the inhabitants of the country wherein said real estate is situated shall be subject to pay in like cases.

Duration of the treaty.

ART. XIX .
The present treaty shall continue in force for ten years counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, and if, twelve months before the expiration of that period, neither of the high contracting parties shall have announced to the other by an official notification its intention to arrest the operation of the said treaty, it shall remain obligatory one year beyond that time , and so on, until the expiration of the twelve months which will follow a similar notification , whatever is the time at which it may take place.

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

521

tion, la détention et l'emprisonnement des déserteurs des bâtimens de guerre et marchands de leur pays. Ils s'adresseront à cet effet aux tribunaux, juges, et officiers compétens, et reclameront par écrit les déserteurs susmentionnés en prouvant par la communication des régistres des bâtimens ou rôles des equipages, ou par d'autres documens officiels que ces individus ont fait partie des dits équipages. Cette reclamation ainsi prouvée l'extradition ne sera point refusée. Ces déserteurs lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés seront mis à la disposition des dits consuls, vice-consuls ou agens commerciaux et pourront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques à la requisition et aux frais de ceux qui les reclament pour être retenus jusqu'au moment ou ils pourront être rendus aux bâtimens aux quels ils appartiennent, ou pour être renvoyés dans leur pays sur des bâtimens nationaux ou autres. Mais s'ils ne sont pas renvoyés
dans l'espace de trois mois, à compter du jour de leur arrestation , ils seront mis en liberté et ne pourront plus être arrêtés pour la même cause. Toutefois si le déserteur se trouvait avoir commis quelque crime ou delit, il pourra être sursis à son extradition jusqu'à ce que le tribunal saisi de l'affaire ait rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.

ART. XVIII.
Les sujets ou citoyens de chacune des parties contractantes pourront librement disposer par testament, donation , ou autrement, des biens personnels qu'ils posséderont dans les etats de l'autre, et leurs heritiers qui seront sujets ou citoyens de l'autre nation pourront succeder à leurs biens personnels soit en vertu d'un testament soit ab intestato et en prendre possession, soit en personne soit par d'autres agissant en leur nom : ils pourront en outre en disposer à leur gré en ne payant à cet effet que les mêmes impositions, taxes ou droits aux quels sont assujettis dans des cas semblables les habitans du pays où se trouvent les dits biens. En cas d'absence des heritiers, on donnera pour la conservation des dits biens les mêmes dispositions qu'on prendrait en pareil cas pour les propriétés des natifs du pays jusqu'à ce que le propriétaire ait fait les arrangemens nécessaires pour recueillir l'héritage. S'il s'élevait des contestations entre différens prétendans quant aux droits que chacun d'eux soutiendrait avoir sur la succession elles seront decidées en der-
nier ressort par les juges et selon les loix du pays où ces biens seront situés. Et si par la mort d'une personne possédant des biens fonds sur le territoire d'une des deux parties contractantes, ces biens fonds venaient à passer par la dernière volonté de leur possesseur à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie qui par sa qualité d'étranger serait inhabile à les posséder, on lui accordera un délai convenable pour les vendre, pour en retirer et emporter le produit sans obstacles d'aucune sorte et sans qu'on lui impose au profit du Gouvernement respectif aucune taxe, imposition ou droit plus forts que ceux aux quels seraient soumis en pareils cas les habitans du pays ou ces biens sont situés.

ART. XIX.
Le présent traité sera en vigueur pendant dix années à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications et si un an avant ce terme l'une des parties contractantes n'avait pas annoncé à l'autre par une notification officielle, son intention d'en faire cesser l'effet le dit traité restera obligatoire pendant douze mois au delà de ce terme et ainsi de suite jusqu'à l'expiration des douze mois qui suivront une semblable déclaration quelle que soit l'époque à laquelle elle aurait eu lieu.

VOL. VIII. 66

2T2

522

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838.

ART. XX .

Ratifications to be exchanged within ten
months.

The present treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by his Majesty the King of Sardinia, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in the city of Washington within ten months from the date of the signature thereof or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof the plenipotentiaries of the contracting parties have signed the present treaty and thereto affixed their respective seals.
Done at Genoa this 26th of November 1838.

NATHANIEL NILES,

(L. S.)

SOLAR DE LA MARGUERITE, (L. s.)

SEPARATE ARTICLE .

U. S. at liberty to establish differential du. ties, in case, & c.
Effect of this article.

Circumstances of a peculiar nature rendering it necessary for his Sardinian Majesty to continue for a time differential duties to the disadvantage of foreign flags, on grain, olive oil , and wine, imported directly from the Black Sea, the ports of the Adriatic, and those of the Mediterranean, as far as Cape Trafalgar, notwithstanding the general provisions of the articles No. 2, 3, and 4 of the present treaty, it is distinctly understood and agreed by the high contracting parties, that the United States shall have full and entire liberty to establish countervailing differential duties on the same articles imported from the same places to the disadvantage of the Sardinian flag, in case the existing or any other differential duties on the said articles, shall be continued in force, to the disadvantage of the flag of the United States of America by his Sardinian Majesty, beyond a period of four years, counting from the day of the exchange of the ratifications of the present treaty and separate article, but all countervailing differential duties on the said articles shall cease to be exacted from the time the United States
Government shall have been informed officially of the discontinuance of differential duties on the part of his Sardinian Majesty.
The present separate article shall have the same force and value as
if it were inserted word for word in the treaty signed this day and shall be ratified in the same time.

In faith whereof, we the undersigned, by virtue of our full powers, have signed the present separate article and thereto affixed our respective seals.

Done at Genoa the 26th November 1838.

NATHANIEL NILES, SOLAR DE LA MARGUERITE, ( L. s.)

TREATY WITH SARDINIA. 1838 .

523

ART. XX . Le présent traité sera approuvé et ratifié par le President des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Senat des dits Etats, et par sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne, et les ratifications en seront échangées à Washington dans dix mois de la date de la signature ou plutôt si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi les plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent traité et y ont apposé leurs cachets respectifs.
Fait à Gênes le 26 Novembre, 1838.
NATHANIEL NILES , SOLAR DE LA MARGUERITE, (L. s.)

ARTICLE SÉPARÉ .
Sa Majesté Sarde jugeant convenable par des motifs particuliers de continuer à percevoir pour à présent des droits differentiels au détriment des pavillons étrangers sur les bleds, l'huile d'olive et le vin importé directement de la mer Noire, des ports de la Mer Adriatique et de ceux de la Méditerannée jusqu'au Cap Trafalgar nonobstant les articles 2, 3, et 4 du présent traité, il est spécialement entendu et établi entre les hautes parties contractantes que les Etats Unis auront pleine et entière liberté d'établir des droits différentiels équivalens sur les mêmes articles importés des mêmes pays au détriment du pavillon Sarde dans le cas où la perception des droits différentiels continuerait à être exercée au détriment du pavillon des Etats Unis d'Amérique par sa Majesté le Roi de Sardaigne au delà de l'espace de quatre ans à compter du jour de l'échange des ratifications du présent traité et article séparé. Mais ces droits différentiels équivalens de quelque espèce qu'ils soyent sur les dits articles de commerce , cesseront d'être perçus du moment où le Gouvernement des Etats Unis aura été informé d'office de la cessation
des droits différentiels de la part de sa Majesté Sarde.

Le présent article séparé aura la même force et valeur que s'il avait été inséré mot à mot dans le traité signé ajourd'hui et sera ratifié en même tems.

En foi de quoi nous soussignés en vertu de nos pleinspouvoirs avons signé le présent article séparé et y avons apposé nos cachets respectifs.
Fait à Gênes le 26me Novembre, 1838.

NATHANIEL NILES ,

(L. S.)

SOLAR DE LA MARGUERRIITTEE, (L. s.)

Jan. 19, 1839. TREATY WITH THE KING OF THE NETHERLANDS . ( a)

Ratifications
exchanged , May 23, 1839. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., May 24, 1839.

THE United States of America and his Majesty the King of the Netherlands, anxious to regulate the commerce and navigation carried on between the two countries in their respective vessels, have, for that purpose, named plenipotentiaries, that is to say :
The President of the United States has appointed John Forsyth ,

Secretary of State of the said United States ; and his Majesty the King of the Netherlands, Jonkheer Evert Marius Adrian Martini, member

of the body of nobles of the province of North Brabant, knight of the order of the Netherland Lion, and his Chargé d'Affaires near the United States, who having exchanged their respective full powers, found in good and due form , have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Duties on im . ports and exports.
Bounties, & c. granted by either party in favor of its own vessels, to be granted to the other.

Goods and merchandise, whatever their origin may be, imported into or exported from the ports of the United States, from or to the ports of the Netherlands in Europe, in vessels of the Netherlands, shall pay no
higher or other duties than shall be levied on the like goods and merchandise so imported or exported in national vessels. And reciprocally, goods and merchandise, whatever their origin may be, imported into, or exported from , the ports of the Netherlands in Europe, from or to the ports of the United States, in vessels of the said States, shall pay no higher or other duties, than shall be levied on the like goods and merchandise so imported or exported in national vessels. The bounties, drawbacks, or other favours of this nature, which may be granted in the States of either of the contracting parties, on goods imported or exported in national vessels , shall also and in like manner be granted on goods directly exported or imported in vessels of the other country, to and from the ports of the two countries ; it being understood, that in the latter as in the preceding case, the goods shall have been loaded in the ports from which such vessels have been cleared.

Tonnage du ties, & c.

ARTICLE II.
Neither party shall impose upon the vessels of the other, whether carrying cargoes between the United States and the ports of the Netherlands in Europe, or arriving in ballast from any other country, any duties of tonnage, harbour dues, light-houses, salvage, pilotage, quarantine, or port charges of any kind or denomination which shall not be imposed in like cases on national vessels.

Privileges of consuls, & c.

ARTICLE III.
It is further agreed between the two contracting parties, that the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the United States in the ports of the Netherlands in Europe ; and reciprocally the Consuls and Vice Consuls of the Netherlands in the ports of the said States, shall continue to enjoy all privileges, protection and assistance, as may be usual and necessary for the duly exercising of their functions, in respect also of the deserters from the vessels, whether public or private, of their countries.

(a) For another treaty between the United States and the Netherlands , see ante, page 32. (524)

TRAATEN MIT DER KONING DER NEDERLANDEN.
ZYNE Majesteit de Koning der Nederlanden en de Vereenigde Stater van Amerika, den handel en de scheepvaart wenschende te regelen , welke tusschen de twee landen in derzelver schepen respectivelyk wordt gedreven, hebben daartoe Gevolmagtigden benoemd, te weten :
Zyne Majesteit de Koning der Nederlanden heeft benoemd : Jonkheer Evert Marius Adriaan Martini , lid van de ridderschap van de provincie Noord Braband, ridder der orde van den Nederlandschen leeuw, en Hoogstdeszelfs Zaakgelastigde by de Vereenigde Staten ; en de President der Vereenigde Staten : John Forsyth, Secretaris van Staat van gezegde Vereenigde Staten ; dewelke na hunne wederzydsche volmagten te hebben uitgewisseld, die in goede en behoorlyke orde bevonden zyn, over de volgende artikelen zyn overeengekomen :
ARTIKEL I.
Goederen en koopwaren onverschillig welke derzelver herkomst zy, ingevoerd of uitgevoerd wordende, in of uit de havens der Nederlanden in Europa van of naar de havens der Vereenigde Staten, in Nederlandsche schepen zullen geene hoogere of andere regten betalen, dan zullen worden geheven op gelyke goederen en koopwaren ingevoerd of uitgevoerd in nationale schepen. En wederkeerig zullen goederen en koopwaren, onvershillig welke derzelver herkomst zy , ingevoerd of uitgevoerd wordende, in of uit de havens der Vereenigde Staten van of naar de havens der Nederlanden in Europa, in de schepen dier Staten geene hoogere of andere regten betalen, dan zullen worden geheven op gelyke goederen en koopwaren ingevoerd of uitgevoerd in nationale schepen. De premien, teruggave van regten of andere begunstigingen van dien aard, in de Staten van eene der contracterende partyen aan den inof uitvoer met nationale schepen toegekend, zullen insgelyks bewilligd worden, wanneer de regtstreeksche in of uitvoer tusschen de havens der twee landen zal geschieden met schepen van den anderen Staat, met dien verstande, dat zoowel in dit, als in het vorige geval, de goederen werkelyk zullen moeten zyn ingeladen in de havens, van waar die schepen respectivelyk zyn uitgeklaard.
ARTIKEL II.
Geene der partyen zal op de schepen der andere, hetzy dezelve ladingen tusschen de havens der Nederlanden in Europa en die der Vereenigde Staten overbrengen , of wel in ballast aankomen van eenig ander land, eenige regten heffen voor tonnen-haven-baken-berg-of reddingloon, (salvage, )- loods-quarantine-of havengelden van welke soort of benaming ook, welke in gelyke gevallen niet zullen worden gelegd op nationale schepen.
ARTIKEL III.
Verder is tusschen de beide contracteerende partyen overeengekomen, dat de Nederlandsche Consuls en Vice Consuls in de havens der Vereenigde Staten, en wederkeerig de Consuls en Vice Consuls dier Staten in de Nederlandsche havens in Europa, voortdurend al zoodanige voorregten, bescherming en bystand zullen genieten , als gebruikelyk zyn , en vereischt worden tot de behoorlyke waarneming hunner ambtsplig ten, ook met betrekking tot de deserteurs van de schepen hunner landen , zoowel oorlogschepen als koopvaarders.
(525)

526

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

ARTICLE IV.

What shall be considered national vessels.

The contracting parties agree to consider and treat as vessels of the United States and of the Netherlands, all such as, being furnished by the competent authority with a passport or sea-letter, shall , under the then existing laws and regulations, be recognised as national vessels by the country to which they respectively belong.

Assistance to
shipwrecked vessels, & c.

ARTICLE V.
In case of shipwreck or damage at sea, each party shall grant to the vessels, whether public or private, of the other, the same assistance and protection which would be afforded to its own vessels in like cases.

ARTICLE VI.

Duration ofthe The present treaty shall be in force for the term of ten years, com-

treaty .

mencing six weeks after the exchange of the ratifications ; and further

until the end of twelve months after either of the contracting parties

shall have given to the other notice of its intention to terminate the same each of the contracting parties reserving to itself the right of

giving such notice to the other, after the expiration of the said term of ten years. And it is hereby mutually agreed, that in case of such notice

this treaty, and all the provisions thereof, shall, at the end of the said

twelve months, altogether cease and determine.

Ratifications to
be exchanged within six months.

ARTICLE VII. The present treaty shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington, within six months of its date, or sooner, if practicable.

In witness whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms.

Done in duplicate, at the City of Washington, this nineteenth day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine. JOHN FORSYTH, (L. s.) ADR . MARTINI , (L. s.)

CONVENTION

April 11 , 1839. For the adjustment of claims of citizens of the United

Proclamation of the President of the U.S., April 8, 1840.

States of America upon the Government of the Mexican Republic.

WHEREAS a convention for the adjustment of claims of citizens of

Post. p. 578.

the United States upon the Government of the Mexican Republic was concluded and signed at Washington on the 10th day of September, 1838 , which convention was not ratified on the part of the Mexican

Government, on the alleged ground that the consent of His Majesty the

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

527

ARTIKEL IV.
De contracteerende partyenkomen overeen, om als schepen der Nederlanden en der Vereenigde Staten te beschouwen en te behandelen al dezulke, welke, door de bevoegde autoriteit voorzien van een paspoort of zeebrief, onder de in der tyd bestaande wetten en verordeningen als nationale schepen zullen worden erkend door het land, tot hetwelk zy respectivelyk behooren.

ARTIKEL V.
In geval van schipbreuk of zeeschade zal elke party aan de schepen van de andere, hetzy dezelve oorlogschepen of koopvaaders zyn, dezelfde hulp en bystand verleenen , welke in gelyke gevallen aan hare eigene schepen zouden worden verstrekt.

ARTIKEL VI.

Het tegenwoordige traktaat zal van kracht zyn voor den tyd van tien

jaren, te beginnen zes weken na de uitwisseling der ratificatien ; en

verder tot aan het einde van twaalf maanden , na dat eene der contrac-

teerende partyen aan de andere kennis zal gegeven hebben van haar

voornemen om hetzelve te doen ophouden ; behoudende elk der con-

tracteerende partyen zich het regt voor, om zoodanige kennisgeving

aan de andere te doen na het einde van het voornoemde tydperk van

tien jaren en is men hierby onderling overeengekomen dat, ingeval

van zoodanige kennisgeving, dit traktaat en al dezelfs bepalingen geza-

menlyk, na verloop der gestelde twaalf maanden, zullen ophouden en

eindigen.

ARTIKEL VII.

Het tegenwoordige traktaat zal bekrachtigd worden, en de bekrachtigingen zullen worden uitgewisseld te Washington, binnen zes maanden na de dagteekening, of zoo mogelyk vroeger.

Ter oorkonde waarvan de wederzydsche gevolmagtigden deze hebben geteekend, en met het zegel hunner wapenen voorzien.
Gedaan in duplikaat, te Washington , den negentiensten dag van January, in het jaar onzes Heeren een duizend acht honderd negen en dertig.
ADR. MARTINI , (L. s.) JOHN FORSYTH, (L. S.)

CONVENCION
Para el arreglo de reclamaciones de ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de America contra el Gobierno de la República Mexicána.
POR cuanto en 10 de Septiembre de 1833 fue concluida y firmada en Washington una convencion para el arreglo de reclamaciones de ciudad anos de los Estados Unidos de America contra el Gobierno de la Republica Mexicana, cuya convencion no fue ratificada por parte del Gobierno Mexicano, fundandose en que no podia obtenerse de Su Ma-

528

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

King of Prussia to provide an arbitrator to act in the case provided by said convention could not be obtained :
And whereas the parties to said convention are still, and equally, desirous of terminating the discussions which have taken place between them in respect to said claims, arising from injuries to the persons and property ofthe citizens of the United States by Mexican authorities, in a manner equally advantageous to the citizens of the United States, by whom said injuries have been sustained, and more convenient to Mexico than that provided by said convention : the President of the United States has named for this purpose, and furnished with full powers, John Forsyth, Secretary of State of the said United States ; and the President of the Mexican Republic has named his excellency Señor Don Francisco Pizarro Martinez, accredited as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Mexican Republic to the United States, and has furnished him with full powers for the same purpose : And the said plenipotentiaries have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :
ARTICLE I.

Certain claims
to be referred to a board offour commissioners. Manner of their appointment.

It is agreed that all claims of citizens of the United States upon the Mexican Government, statements of which, soliciting the interposition of the Government of the United States, have been presented to the Department of State or to the diplomatic agent of the United States at Mexico until the signature of this convention , shall be referred to four

commissioners, who shall form a board, and be appointed in the follow-

ing manner, namely : two commissioners shall be appointed by the

President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of

the Senate thereof, and two commissioners by the President of the

Mexican Republic. The said commissioners, so appointed, shall be

sworn impartially to examine and decide upon the said claims according

to such evidence as shall be laid before them on the part of the United States and the Mexican Republic respectively.

ARTICLE II .

The board to thaarvieest, w&ocs.ecre-

The said board shall have two secretaries, versed in the English and

Spanish languages ; one to be appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and

the other by the President of the Mexican Republic. And the said

secretaries shall be sworn faithfully to discharge their duty in that

capacity.

ARTICLE III.

Meeting ofthe board.

The said board shall meet in the city of Washington within three months after the exchange of the ratifications of this convention, and within eighteen months from the time of its meeting shall terminate its duties. The Secretary of State of the United States shall, immediately after the exchange of the ratifications of this convention, give notice of the time of the meeting of the said board, to be published in two newspapers in Washington , and in such other papers as he may think proper.

ARTICLE IV.

Doraments to All documents which now are in, or hereafter, during the continuance

be delivered to of the commission constituted by this convention , may come into the

the board.

possession of the Department of State of the United States, in relation

to the aforesaid claims, shall be delivered to the board. The Mexican

Government shall furnish all such documents and explanations as may

be in their possession, for the adjustment of the said claims according

to the principles of justice, the law of nations, and the stipulations of the treaty of amity and commerce between the United States and

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

529

gestad el Rey de Prúsia que consintiese en nombrar un arbitradór que actuáse en el caso prevenido en dicha convencion :
Y por cuanto las partes interesadas en ella continuan igualmente deseosas de terminar las discusiones que han tenido, con respecto á las espresadas reclamaciones por daños causados á las personas y propiedades de ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos per autoridades Mexicanas, de una manera igualmente ventajosa á los ciudadanos de los Estados
Unidos que han sufrido dichos daños, y mas conveniente para Mexico que la estipulada en la mencionada convencion : ha conferido el Presidente de la República Mexicana plenos poderes, á este efecto, á Francisco Pizarro Martinez, Enviado Estraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de la misma Republica cerca de los Estados Unidos ; y el Presidente de estos ha nombrado y autorizado plenamente, con el propio fin, al honorable Señor Juan Forsyth, Secretario de Estado de dichos Estados Unidos ; quienes han ajustado y convenido en los articulos siuientes :

ARTICULO 1.

Todas las reclamaciones de ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos contra el Gobierno Mexicano, á cerca de las cuales se haya representado solicitando la interposicion del de los Estados Unidos, y hayan sido exhibidas al Departamento de Estado ó al agente diplomatico de los mencionados Estados Unidos en Mexico hasta que esta convencion sea firmada , se pasarán á cuatro comisionados , que formarán una junta, y serán nombrados de la manera siguiente : á saber, dos de ellos lo serán por el Presidente de la República Mexicána, y los otros dos por el de los Estados Unidos, con consentimiento y aprobacion del Senado de los mismos. Los dichos comisionados nombrados segun se ha espresado,
prestarán juramento de ecsáminar y fallár imparcialmente sobre dichas reclamaciones, con arreglo á las pruebas que se les presentáren por parte de la República Mexicána y de los Estados Unidos.

ARTICULO II.
La mencionada junta tendrá dos secretarios, versados en los idiomas Castelláno é Ynglés ; uno de los cuales será nombrado por el Presidente de la República Mexicána, y otro por el de los Estados Unidos, con consentimiento y aprobacion del Senado de los mismos ; y dichos secretarios prestarán juramento de cumplir fielmente los deberes de su destino.
ARTICULO III.
Se reunirá la mencionada comision en la ciudad de Washington, dentro del termino de tres meses, contados desde el cánge de las ratificaciones de este convenio, y á los diez y ocho meses, despues del dia en que se reunire terminarán sus funciones. Ynmediatamente despues de que las ratificaciones de esta convencion hayan sido cangeadas, anunciará el Secretaria de Estado de los Estados Unidos, en dos de los periodicos de Washington, y otros que le parezca conveniente, la epoca en que dicha comision se reunirá.

ARTICULO IV.

Todo documento que en la actualidad se halle, ó que en lo succesivo

viniere á poder del Departamento de Estado de los Estados Unidos,

durante la ecsistencia de la comision establecida por este convénio, y

sea relativo á las mencionadas reclamaciones, se entregará á la comision.

El Gobierno Mexicano subministrará cuantos documentos y aclaraciones

estén á su alcance, para el ajuste de las espresadas reclamaciones, segun

los principios de justicia, el derecho de gentes, y las estipulaciones del

tratado de amistad y comercio entre Mexico y los Estados Unidos de 5

YOL. VIII. 67

2U

530

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

Mexico of the 5th of April, 1831 ; the said documents to be specified when demanded at the instance of the said commissioners.

The commissioners to decide on the jus. tice of said claims, & c.

ARTICLE V.
The said commissioners shall, by a report under their hands and seals, decide upon the justice of the said claims and the amount of compensation, if any, due from the Mexican Government in each case.

ARTICLE VI.

Mexico at liberty to issue treasury notes for the amount found due.

It is agreed that if it should not be convenient for the Mexican Government to pay at once the amount so found due, it shall be at liberty, immediately after the decisions in the several cases shall have taken place, to issue Treasury notes, receivable at the maritime customhouses of the Republic in payment of any duties which may be due or imposed at said custom-houses upon goods entered for importation or exportation : said Treasury notes to bear interest at the rate of eight per centum per annum from the date of the award on the claim in payment of which said Treasury notes shall have been issued until that of their receipt at the Mexican custom-houses. But as the presentation and receipt of said Treasury notes at said custom-houses in large amounts might be inconvenient to the Mexican Government, it is further agreed that, in such case, the obligation of said Government to receive them in payment of duties, as above stated, may be limited to one half the amount of said duties.

ARTICLE VII.

In case of the commissioners differing in relation to the claims, & c.

It is further agreed that in the event of the commissioners differing in relation to the aforesaid claims, they shall , jointly or severally, draw up a report stating, in detail, the points on which they differ, and the grounds upon which their respective opinions have been formed. And it is agreed that the said report or reports, with authenticated copies of all documents upon which they may be founded, shall be referred to the decision of His Majesty the King of Prussia. But as the documents relating to the aforesaid claims are so voluminous that it cannot be expected His Prussian Majesty would be willing or able personally to investigate them, it is agreed that he shall appoint a person to act as an arbiter in his behalf; that the person so appointed shall proceed to Washington ; that his travelling expenses to that city, and from thence on his return to his place of residence in Prussia, shall be defrayed, one half by the United States and one half by the Mexican Republic ; and that he shall receive as a compensation for his services a sum equal tc one half of the compensation that may be allowed by the United States to one of the commissioners to be appointed by them, added to one half the compensation that may be allowed by the Mexican Government to one of the commissioners to be appointed by it. And the compen sation of such arbiter shall be paid, one half by the United States and one half by the Mexican Government.

ARTICLE VIII.

The King of Prussia to be invited to ap-
point an umpire, in case, & c.

Immediately after the signature of this convention , the plenipotentiaries of the contracting parties (both being thereunto competently authorized) shall, by a joint note, addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of Prussia, to be delivered by the minister of the United States at Berlin, invite the said monarch to ap-. point an umpire to act in his behalf in the manner above-mentioned, in case this convention shall be ratified respectively by the Governments of the United States and Mexico.

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

531

de Abril de 1831 ; y se especificará cuales sean dichos documentos, al tiempo de pedirlos, á instancia de los mencionados comisionados.
ARTICULO V.
Los dichos comisionados fallarán , por médio de una relacion autor zada con sus firmas y sellos respectivos, sobre la justicia de las men cionadas reclamaciones, y el importe á que puede ascender la compen sacion de que resulte deudor, en cada caso, el Gobierno Mexicano.
ARTICULO VI.
Se ha convenido igualmente, que si al Gobierno Mexicano no lo fuere cómodo satisfacer al contado el importe de que resultáre deudor , podrá inmediatamente despues de pronunciados los fállos en los diversos casos, emitir libranzas recibidéras en las aduanas maritimas de la República en pagamento de cualesquiera derechos que en ellas se adeudáren ó se impusieren á los efectos, tanto á su importacion, como á su esportacion. Dichas libranzas estarán sujetas á un interés anual de ocho por ciento, desde la fecha en que se dén los decretos sobre las reclamaciones en cuya satisfaccion hayan sido emitidas dichas libranzas, hasta la en que se perciban en las espresadas aduanas. Pero como la presentacion y recibo de dichas libranzas en las mencionadas aduanas en grandes sumas podria no convenir al Gobierno Mexicáno, se ha acordado, ademas, que en tal caso la obligacion de recibirlas dicho Gobierno, en pagamento de derechos, segun se ha espresado arriba, pueda limitarse á una mitad del importe á que asciendan dichos derechos.
ARTICULO VII.
Se ha convenido ademas que, en caso de no estar conformes los comisionados con respecto á las precitadas reclamaciones, estiendan junta ó separadamente, una relacion circunstanciada de los puntos en que sean de opinion contraria, y de las razones sobre que funden sus respectivos juicios. Y se ha acordado que dicha relacion ó relaciones, acompañadas de copias auténticas de todos los documentos en que se apoyen, se refieran á la decision de Su Magestad el Rey de Prúsia. Pero como los documentos relativos á las precitadas reclamaciones son tan volumi. nosos que no puede esperarse que Su Magestad Prusiana quiera ó pueda ecsaminarlos por si, se ha convenido en que nombre una persona que como árbitro le represente ; que la persona nombrada del modo que va espresado se trasladará á Washington ; que los gastos de su viage á esta ciudad, y de ella al punto de su residencia en Prúsia, serán costeádos una mitad por la República Mexicána y otra por los Estados Unidos ; y que recibirá, como honorarios por sus servicios, una suma igual á la mitad de la que el Gobierno Mexicano señaláse á uno de los comisionados que ha de nombrar, con otra mitad de la que por los suyos señaláren los Estados Unidos á uno de los comisionados que por su parte han de nombrarse cuyos honorarios serán satisfechos una mitad por la Republica Mexicana y la otra por los Estados Unidos.

ARTICULO VIII.
Ynmediatamente despues que los plenipotenciarios de las partes contratantes hayan firmado esta convencion , dirigirán de mancomun , (para lo cual estan ambos competentemente autorizados, ) por conducto del señor enviado de los Estados Unidos á Berlin, á su escelencia el Ministro de Relaciones Estrangeras de Su Magestad el Rey de Prusia, una nota invitando á dicho monarca para nombrar una persona que como arbitro lo represente de la manera arriba mencionada, en caso de que esta convencion sea ratificada respectivamente por los Gobiernos de Mexico y los Estados Unidos.

532

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

ARTICLE IX.

In case of the
King of Prussia declining, & c.

It is agreed that, in the event of His Prussian Majesty's declining to appoint an umpire to act in his behalf, as aforesaid, the contracting parties, on being informed thereof, shall, without delay, invite Her Britannic Majesty, and in case of her declining his Majesty the King of the Netherlands, to appoint an umpire to act in their behalf, respectively, as above provided.
ARTICLE X.

Decision of the And the contracting parties further engage to consider the decision umpire to be of such umpire to be final and conclusive on all the matters so referred final.

ARTICLE XI.
Treasury notes For any sums of money which the umpire shall find due to citizens to be issued. of the United States by the Mexican Government, Treasury notes shall
be issued in the manner aforementioned.

ARTICLE XII.

Mexico exonerated from certain claims.

And the United States agree for ever to exonerate the Mexican Government from any further accountability for claims which shall either
be rejected by the board or the arbiter aforesaid , or which, being allowed by either, shall be provided for by the said Government in the manner beforementioned.

ARTICLE XIII.

Compensation
of commission ers, & c.

And it is agreed that each Government shall provide compensation for the commissioners and secretary to be appointed by it ; and that the contingent expenses of the board shall be defrayed, one moiety by the United States and one moiety by the Mexican Republic.

ARTICLE XIV.

Ratifications to This convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall be ex-

be exchanged within twelve

changed at Washington within twelve months from the signature hereof,

months.

or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of the Mexican Republic , have signed and sealed these presents.

Done in the city of Washington, on the eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, in the sixty-third year of the independence of the United States of America and the nineteenth of that of the Mexican Republic.

JOHN FORSYTH ,

(L. S.

FRAN. PIZARRO MARTINEZ, (L. s.)

CONVENTION WITH MEXICO. 1839.

533

ARTICULO IX .
Se ha convenido ademas que, si Su Magestad Prusiana rehusáre hacer el nombramiento de que habla el articulo anterior, procederán al momento que lo sepan las partes contratantes á invitar á Su Magestad Britanica, y si tambien ella se rehusaré, á Su Magestad el Rey de Holanda, á fin que nombre un arbitrador que le represente segun queda pactado.
ARTICULO X.
Las partes contratantes se obligan ademas á considerar como final y decisivo el fallo del mencionado arbitrador, en todas las materias que se hayan sujetado á su ecsámen.
ARTICULO XI.
Se emitirán libranzas, en los terminos arriba espresados, por el importe del dinero que el arbitrador encuentre que sea deudor á ciudadanos de los Estados el Gobierno Mexicano.

ARTICULO XII.
Y los Estados Unidos convienen en descargar para siempre al Gobierno Mexicano de toda responsabilidad ùlterior, por reclamaciones que sean rechazadas, bien por la junta ó por el mencionado arbitrador, ó que admitidas por cualquiera de ellos, haya dicho Gobierno provisto á su compensacion en los terminos antes espresados.
ARTICULO XIII.
Se ha convenido en que cada Gobierno señále á los comisionados y secretarios que ha de nombrar los honorarios respectivos ; y que los gastos contingentes de la junta sean costeados, una mitad por la Republica Mexicana, y otra por los Estados Unidos.
ARTICULO XIV.
La presente convencion será ratificada, y las ratificaciones seran cangeadas en Washington dentro de doce meses de este dia, ó antes si fuere posible.

En fé de lo cual noso tros los plenipotenciarios de la República Mexicana y de los Estados Unidos de America, hemos firmado y sellado las presentes.

Fecho en la ciudad de Washington, á los once dias de Abril del año del Señor mil ochocientos treinta y nueve, decimo nono de la
yndependencia de la Republica Mexicana, y el sexagesimo tercio de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

FRAN. PIZARRO MARTINEZ , (L. S.)

JOHN FORSYTH ,

(L. S. )

2 U2

TREATY WITH ECUADOR.

June 13, 1839. THE United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador,

Ratifications ex- desiring to make lasting and firm the friendship and good understand-

changed at Quito, April 9, 1842.

ing which happily prevails

between

both

nations, have resolved to fix,

Proclamation of in a manner clear, distinct, and positive the rules which shall, in

the President, future, be religiously observed between the one and the other, by Sept. 23, 1842.
means of a treaty of friendship , commerce, and navigation. For this

most desirable object, the President of the United States of America

has conferred full powers on James C. Pickett, a citizen of the said

States, and the President of the Republic of Ecuador, on Doctor Luis de Saá , Minister of Finance , charged with the Department of the Inte-

rior and Foreign Relations ; who, after having exchanged their saiu

full powers, in due and proper form , have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Tobe a perfect, There shall be a perfect, firm and inviolable peace and sincere friend-

fbilrem, paenadcien,vioalnad- ship, between the United States of America and the Republic of Ecusincere friend ador, in all the extent of their possessions and territories, and between

ship.

their people and citizens, respectively, without distinction of persons

or places.

ARTICLE II.

Favors granted
byeither, to other nations, to be
common to the other.

The United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador, desiring to live in peace and harmony with all the other nations of the earth, by means of a policy frank and equally friendly with all, engage mutually, not to grant any particular favor to other nations, in respect of commerce and navigation , which shall not immediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy the same freely, if the concession was freely made, or, on allowing the same compensation, if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE III.

Mutual benefits The two high contracting parties, being likewise desirous of placing
in trade and re- the commerce and navigation of their respective countries on the libsidence to be equally enjoyed. eral basis of perfect equality and reciprocity, mutually agree, that the
citizens of each, may frequent all the coasts and countries of the other,

and reside and trade there, in all kinds of produce, manufactures and

merchandise ; and they shall enjoy all the rights, privileges and exemptions, in navigation and commerce, which native citizens do , or

shall enjoy, submitting themselves to the laws, decrees and usages

Except as to there established , to which native citizens are subjected : but it is un-

the coasting trade .

derstood, that this article does not include the coasting trade of either

country, the regulation of which is reserved by the parties respectively,

according to their own separate laws. And it is further agreed, that

And the privi- this article shall be subject to the following modification. That

leges granted to whereas by a law of Ecuador of March 21st, 1837, vessels built in the vessels built in
the dock-yard at dock-yard of Guayaquil , shall be exempted from various charges,

Guayaquil.

therefore, vessels of the United States cannot claim this privilege, but

shall enjoy it if it should be granted to vessels belonging to Spain , or

to Mexico, and to the other Hispano-American Republics.

ARTICLE IV.
Equalization of They likewise agree, that whatever kind of produce, manufactures duties on vessels or merchandise of any foreign country can be, from time to time, law. and their cargoes. fully imported into the United States, in their own vessels, may be
(534)

TRACTADO CON ECUADOR.
LA República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando hacer duradera y firme la amistad y buena inteligencia que felizmente existe entre ambas potencias, han resuelto fijar de una manera clara, distinta y positíva, las reglas que deben observar religiosamente en lo venidero, por medio de un tratado de paz , amistad, comercio y navegacion. Con este muy deseable objeto, el Presidente de la República del Ecuador ha conferido plenos poderes al Doctor Luis de Saá, Ministro de Hacienda y encargado del Ministerio del Interior y Relaciones Esteriores, y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America á Santiago C. Pickett ciudadano de dichos Estados ; quienes, despues de haber cangeado sus espresados plenos poderes en debida y buena forma, han convenido en los articulos siguientes :
ARTICULO I.
Habrá una paz perfecta, firme é inviolable y amistad sincera, entre la República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos de America, en toda la estension de sus posesiones y territorios, y entre sus pueblos y ciudadanos respectivamente, sin distincion de personas ni lugares.
ARTICULO II.
La República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos de America, deseando vivir en paz y en armonia con las demas naciones de la tierra, por medio de una politica franca é igualmente amistosa con todas, se obligan mutuamente á no conceder favores particulares á otras naciones, con respecto á comercio y navegacion, que no se hagan inmediatamente comunes á una ú otra, quien gozará de los mismos, libre-
mente, ó prestando la misma compensacion, si la concesion fuere condicional .
ARTICULO III. Las dos altas partes contratantes, deseando tambien establecer el comercio y navegacion de sus respectivos paises, sobre las liberales bases de perfecta igualdad y reciprocidad, convienen, mutuamente en que los ciudadanos de cada una podrán frecuentar todas las costas y paises de la otra y resider y traficar en ellos con toda clase de producciones, manufacturas y mercaderias, y gozarán de todos los derechos, privilegios y exenciones, con respecto á navegacion y comercio, de que gozan ó gozaren los ciudadanos naturales, sometiendose á las leyes, decretos y usos establecidos , á que estan sujetos dichos ciudadanos. Pero debe entenderse que este articulo no comprende el comercio de cabotage de cada uno de los paises, cuya regulacion queda reservada á las partes respectivamente, segun sus leyes propias y peculiares. Y debe entenderse ademas, que este articulo estará sugeto á la modificacion siguiente ; que por cuanto, una ley del Ecuador , fecha de Marzo 21 de 1837 , dispone, que los buques construidos en el astillero de Guayaquil, serán libres de derechos de varias clases, los buques de los Estados Unidos no podrán pretender esta misma libertad ; pero la gozarán, si se concediese á los buques de la España, de Mejico y de las demas Republicas Hispano Americanas.
ARTICULO IV.
Ygualmente convienen en que cualquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ó mercaderias, de cualquier pais estranjero que puedan ser en cualquier tiempo legalmente introducidas en la República del Ecuador
(535)

536

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

also imported in the vessels of the Republic of Ecuador ; aud that no

higher or other duties upon the tonnage of the vessel and her cargo,

shall be levied and collected, whether the importation be made in the vessels of the one country or of the other : and, in like manner, that

whatever kind of produce, manufactures or merchandise of any foreign

country, can be, from time to time, lawfully imported into the Republic of Ecuador in its own vessels, may be also imported in vessels of the United States ; and that no higher or other duties upon the ton-

nage of the vessel and her cargo, shall be levied or collected, whether

the importation be made in vessels of the one country or of the other

natVieosnsselsoonf both the
same footing as to exportations,
dorna. w&bacc. ks there

And they agree, that whatever may be lawfully exported or re-exported from the one country in its own vessels, to any foreign country, may, in like manner, be exported or re-exported in the vessels of the other
country. And the same bounties, duties and drawbacks shall be ai lowed and collected, whether such exportation or re-exportation be

made in vessels of the United States, or of the Republic of Ecuador.

ARTICLE V.

What shall be
considered Ecuadorian vessels.

For the better understanding of the preceding article, and taking into consideration the actual state of the commercial marine of Ecua-
dor, it has been stipulated and agreed, that all vessels belonging exclusively to a citizen or citizens of said Republic, and whose captain is also a citizen of the same, though the construction or the crew are or may be foreign, shall be considered , for all the objects of this treaty, as an Ecuadorian vessel.

ARTICLE VI.

Importations

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into

and exportations the United States, of any articles, the produce or manufactures of the

trocbalefoontianrge.cip- Republic of Ecuador ; and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the Republic of Ecuador, of any articles the

produce or manufactures of the United States, than are, or shall be

payable on the like articles, being the produce or manufactures of any

other foreign country ; nor shall any higher or other duties or charges

be imposed in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles to the United States or to the Republic of Ecuador, respec-

tively, than such as are payable on the exportation of the like articles

to any other foreign country ; nor shall any prohibition be imposed on No partial pro- the exportation or importation of any articles the produce or manufac-

hibitions to be tures of the United States or of the Republic of Ecuador, to or from established.
the territories of the United States, or to or from the territories of the

Republic of Ecuador, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ARTICLE VII.

Citizens ofeith- It is likewise agreed, that it shall be wholly free for all merchants, er,free to manage commanders of ships and other citizens of both countries, to manage

their own busi themselves, their own business, in all the ports and places subject to

t try h of tehe otheerr; the jurisdiction of each other, as well with respect to the consignto be treated as ment and sale of their goods and merchandise by wholesale or retail, coirtaiszetnhsostehoefrtehoef, as with respect to the loading, unloading and sending off their ships ; most favored na- they being in all these cases to be treated as citizens of the country in

ttaixones-, &sucb.ject to which they reside, or , at least, to be placed on a footing with the subjects or citizens of the most favored nation. They shall be subject,
however, to such general taxes and contributions, as are or may be

established by law.

ARTICLE VIII.

No embargo, &c. without in-

The citizens of neither of the contracting parties shall be liable tc

demnification. any embargo, nor be detained with their vessels , cargoes, merchandises,

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

537

en sus propios buques, puedan tambien ser introducidas en los buques de los Estados Unidos, y que no se impondrán ó cobrarán otros ó mas altos derechos de tonelada, ó por el cargamento, ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ó de la otra. De la misma manera cualquiera clase de producciones, manufacturas ó mercaderias de
cualquier pais estrangero, que puedan ser en cualquier tiempo legalmente introducidas en los Estados Unidos en sus propios buques, podrán, tambien ser introducidas en los buques de la República del Ecuador ; y no se impondrán ó cobrarán otros ó mas altos derechos de tonelada ó por el cargamento, ya sea que la importacion se haga en buques de la una ó de la otra. Y convienen que todo lo que pueda ser legalmente esportado ó re-esportado de uno de los dos paises en sus propios buques para un pais estrangero, pueda de la misma manera ser esportado ó re-esportado en los buques del otro. Y los mismos
derechos, premios ó descuentos se concederán y cobrarán, sea que la esportacion ó re-esportacion se haga en los buques de la República del Ecuador ó en los de los Estados Unidos.
ARTICULO V.

Para cabal inteligencia del articulo precedente, y en consideracion al estado de la marina comercial de la República del Ecuador, se ha estipulado y convenido que todo buque perteneciente exclusivamente á ciudadano ó ciudadanos de dicha República, y cuyo capitan sea tambien ciudadano de ella, aunque su construccion y tripulacion sean estrangeras, será considerado para todos los effectos de este tratado, como buque Ecuadoriano.
ARTICULO VI.
No se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos á la importacion en la República del Ecuador de cualquier articulo, produccion ó manufactura de los Estados Unidos, ni se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos á la importacion de cualquier articulo, produccion ó manufactara de la República del Ecuador , en los Estados Unidos, que los que se paguen ó pagaren por iguales articulos, produccion ó manufactura de cualquier pais estrangero ; ni se impondrán otros ó mas altos derechos ó impuestos en cualquiera de los dos paises, á la esportacion de cualesquiera articulos para la Republica del Ecuador, ó para los Estados Unidos respectivamente, que los que se paguen ó pagaren á la esportacion de iguales articulos para cualquier otro pais estrangero ; ni se prohibirá la importacion ó esportacion en los territorios ó de los territorios de la República del Ecuador y de los Estados Unidos, de cualesquiera articulos, produccionó manufactura de la una ó de la otra, á menos que esta prohibicion sea igualmente estensiva á todas las otras naciones.

ARTICULO VII.

Se con viene ademas, que será enteramente libre y permitido á los comerciantes, comandantes de buques, y otros ciudadanos de ambos paises, el manejar sus negocios por si mismos, en todos los puertos y lugares sujetos á la jurisdiccion de uno ú otro, asi respecto de las consignaciones y ventas por mayor y menor de sus efectos y mercaderias, como de la carga y descarga y despacho de sus buques , debiendo en todos estos casos , ser tratados como ciudadanos del pais en que residan, ó al menos puestos sobre un pie igual con los subditos ó ciudadanos de las naciones mas favorecidas. Estarán sugetos, sin embargo, á los impuestos y contribuciones generales, establecidas por ley, ó que por ella, se establecieren.

ARTICULO VIII.

Los ciudadanos de una u otra parte no podrán ser embargados ni de-

tenidos con sus embarcaciones, tripulaciones, mercaderias y effectos

VOL VIII.

68

533

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

or effects for any military expedition, nor for any public or private purpose whatever, without allowing to those interested a sufficient indemnification .
ARTICLE IX.
Vessels seeking Whenever the citizens of either of the contracting parties shall be refuge from stress forced to seek refuge or asylum, in the rivers, bays, ports or dominof weather, &c ., ions of the other, with their vessels, whether merchant or of war, pubto be protected, lic or private, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates, or enemies,
they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to them all favor and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provisions , and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage, without obstacle or hindrance of any kind .

ARTICLE X.

All the ships, merchandise, and the effects belonging to the citizens

Captures by of one of the contracting parties, which may be captured by pirates,

pirates to be re-

stored.

whether within the limits of its jurisdiction or on the high seas, and

may be carried or found in the rivers, roads, bays, ports or dominions of the other, shall be delivered up to the owners, they proving, in due

and proper form, their rights, before the competent tribunals ; it being well understood, that the claim should be made within the term of one

year, by the parties themselves, their attorneys, or agents of their respective Governments.

ARTICLE XI.

Assistance to be When any vessels belonging to the citizens of either of the contract-

given in cases of ing parties shall be wrecked , foundered, or shall suffer any damage on

wrecks, &c.

the coasts or within the dominions of the other, there shall be given to

them all assistance and protection , in the same manner which is usual

and customary with the vessels of the nation where the damage happens, permitting them to unload the said vessel , if necessary, of its merchandise and effects, without exacting for it any duty, impost, or

contribution whatever, unless they be destined for consumption.

ARTICLE XII.

Citizens of The citizens of each of the contracting parties shall have power to

either party may
dispose of their personal goods within the juris diction of the
other.

dispose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, donation , testament or otherwise, and their representatives, being citizens of the other party, shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and they may take possession thereof, either by themselves or by others acting for them, and dispose

of the same at their will, paying such duties only as the inhabitants

of the country wherein the said goods are shall be subject to pay in In case of real like cases. And if in the case of real estate , the said heirs would be

estate, alien heirs prevented from entering into the possession of the inheritance on acallowed three years to dispose count of their character of aliens, there shall be granted to them the
of their property. term of three years, to dispose of the same as they may think proper,

and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation , nor any other

charges than those which are imposed by the laws of the country.

ARTICLE XIII.

Protection to Both the contracting parties promise and engage, formally, to give

persons and property.

their

special

protection to the persons

and

property of the citizens of

each other, of all occupations, who may be in the territories subject to

the jurisdiction of the one or the other, transient or dwelling therein ,

leaving open and free to them the tribunals of justice, for their judicial

recourse, on the same terms which are usual and customary with the

natives or citizens of the country in which they may be ; for which they

may employ, in defence of their rights , such advocates, solicitors, Lo-

TREATY WITH ECUADOR . 1839.

539

comerciales, de su pertenencia, para alguna expedicion militar, usos públicos ó particulares, cualesquiera que sean, sin conceder á los interesados una suficiente indemnizacion .
ARTICULO IX .
Siempre que los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes se vieren precisados á buscar refugio ó asilo en los rios, bahias, puertos ó dominios de la otra con sus buques, ya sean mercantes ó de guerra, publicos ó particulares, por mal tiempo, persecucion de piratas ó enemigos, serán recibidos y tratados con humanidad , dandoles todo favor y proteccion para reparar sus buques, procurar viveres, y ponerse en situacion de continuar su viage, sin obstaculo ó estorbo de ningun genero.
ARTICULO X.
Todos los buques, mercaderias y efectos pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que sean apresados por piratas, bien sea dentro de los limites de su jurisdiccion ó en alta mar, y fueren llevados ó hallados en los rios, radas, bahias, puertos, ó dominios de la otra, serán entregados á sus dueños, probando estos, en la forma propia y debida, sus derechos ante los tribunales competentes ; bien entendido que el reclamo ha de hacerse dentro del termino de un año, por las mismas partes, sus apoderados ó agentes de los respectivos Gobiernos.
ARTICULO XI.
Cuando algun buque perteneciente á los ciudadanos de alguna de las partes contratantes, naufrague, encalle ó sufra alguna averia en las costas ó dentro de los dominios de la otra, se les dará toda ayuda y proteccion, del mismo modo que es uso y costumbre con los buques de la nacion en donde suceda la averia ; permitiendoles descargar el dicho buque, si fuere necesario, de sus mercaderias y efectos, sin cobrar por esto, ningun derecho, impuesto ó contribucion, á menos que se destinen al consumo.
ARTICULO XII.
Los ciudadanos de cada una de las partes contratantes tendrán pleno poder para disponer de sus bienes personales dentro de la jurisdiccion de la otra, por venta, donacion, testamento , ó de otro modo ; y sus representantes, siendo ciudadanos de la otra parte, sucederán á sus dichos bienes personales, ya sea por testamento ó ab intestato, y podrán tomar posesion de ellos, ya sea por si mismos ó por otros que obren por ellos , y disponer de los mismos segun su voluntad, pagando aquellas cargas solamente que los habitantes del pais en donde estan los referidos bienes, estuvieren sujetos á pagar en iguales casos. Y si en el caso de bienes raices los dichos herederos fuesen impedidos de entrar en la posesion de la herencia por razon de su caracter de estrangeros, se les dará el termino de tres años para disponer de ella como juzguen conveniente, y para estraer su producto sin molestia, ni otros impuestos que los establecidos por las leyes del pais.
ARTICULO XIII.
Ambas partes contratantes se comprometen y obligan formalmente á dar su proteccion especial á las personas y propiedades de los ciudadanos de cada una reciprocamente, transeuntes ó habitantes, de todas ocupaciones, en los territorios sujetos á la jurisdiccion de una y otra, dejandoles abiertos y libres los tribunales de justicia para sus recursos judiciales, en los mismos terminos que son de uso y costumbre para los naturales ó ciudadanos del pais en que residan ; para lo cual, podrán emplear er defenza de sus derechos, aquellos abogados,

540

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

taries, agents and factors as they judge proper, in all their trials at law ; and such citizens or agents shall have free opportunity to be present at the decisions and sentences of the tribunals, in all cases which may concern them ; and likewise at the taking of all examinations and evidence which may be exhibited on the said trials.

ARTICLE XIV.

Liberty of con-
srictieesnocfeb, urainadl,tsheecured .

It is likewise agreed that the most perfect and entire security of conscience may be enjoyed by the citizens of both the contracting parties, in the countries subject to the jurisdiction of the one and the other, without their being liable to be disturbed or molested on ac count of their religious belief, so long as they respect the laws and established usages of the country. Moreover, the bodies of the citizens of one of the contracting parties, who may die in the territories of the other, shall be buried in the usual burying-grounds, or in other decent or suitable places, and shall be protected from violation or disturbance.

ARTICLE XV.

Both parties at It shall be lawful for the citizens of the United States of America

liberty to trade with those at
enmity with

and of the Republic of Ecuador, to sail with their ships, with all manner of liberty and security ; no distinction being made who are

either, & c.

the proprietors of the merchandises laden thereon, from any port, to

the places of those who now are, or hereafter shall be, at enmity with

either of the contracting parties. It shall likewise be lawful for the

citizens aforesaid, to sail with their ships and merchandises before

mentioned, and to trade with the same liberty and security from the

places, ports, and havens of those who are enemies of both or either

party, without any opposition or disturbance whatsoever ; not only di-

rectly from the places of the enemy before mentioned, to neutral

places, but also from one place belonging to an enemy, to another

place belonging to an enemy, whether they be under the jurisdiction

of one power or under several. And it is hereby stipulated, that free

Free ships to ships shall also give freedom to goods, and that every thing shall be

-mcaoknetfrraebeangdoods deemed free and exempt, which shall be found on board the ships be-

excepted.

longing to the citizens of either of the contracting parties, although

the whole lading, or any part thereof, should appertain to the enemies

of either, contraband goods being always excepted. It is also agreed ,
boaAlrld,peerxscoenpst on in like manner, that the same liberty shall be extended to persons those in the ac- who are on board a free ship, with this effect, that, although they may

tual service of an be enemies to both or either party, they are not to be taken out of

enemy, to be

free.

that free ship, unless they are officers or soldiers, and in the actual

service of the enemies : Provided, however, and it is hereby agreed,

Flag covering the property to be applied to those powers
only, who acknowledge the
principle.

that the stipulations in this article contained, declaring that the flag shall cover the property, shall be understood as applying to those powers only, who recognise this principle ; but, if either of the two contracting parties shall be at war with a third, and the other neutral, the flag of the neutral shall cover the property of enemies, whose governments acknowledge this principle, and not of others.

ARTICLE XVI.

Enemy's prop-
erty,to be protecftleadg,bymuastnebuetral shipped within six months after the declaration of war, & c.

It is likewise agreed, that in the case where the neutral flag of one of the contracting parties shall protect the property of the enemies of the other, by virtue of the above stipulations, it shall always be understood, that the neutral property found on board such enemy's vessels shall be held and considered as enemy's property, and , as such, shall be liable to detention and confiscation ; except such property as was put on board such vessel before the declaration of war, or even afterwards, if it were done without the knowledge of it ; but the contract-

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

541

procuradores, escribanos, agentes ó factores, que juzguen conveniente en todos sus asuntos y litijios ; y dichos ciudadanos ó agentes tendrár. la libre facultad de estar presentes en las decisiones y sentencias de los tribunales, en todos los casos que conciernan á aquellos , como igualmente al tomar todos los examenes y declaraciones que se ofrescan en los dichos litijios.
ARTICULO XIV.
Se conviene igualmente, en que los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes, gozen la mas perfecta y entera seguridad de conciencia en los paises sugetos á la jurisdiccion de una ú otra, sin quedar, por ello, espuestos á ser inquietados ó molestados, en razon de su creencia religiosa, mientras que respeten las leyes y usos establecidos. Ademas de esto, podrán sepultarse los cadáveres de los ciudadanos de una de las partes contratantes, que fallecieren en los territorios de la otra, en los cemeterios acostumbrados, ó en otros lugares decentes y adecuados ; los cuales serán protegidos, contra toda violacion ó trastorno.
ARTICULO XV.
Será licito á los ciudadanos de la República del Ecuador y de los Estados Unidos de America, navegar con sus buques, con toda seguridad y libertad, de cualquier puerto á las plazas ó lugares de los que son ó fueren en adelante enemigos de cualquiera de las dos partes contratantes, sin hacerse distinccion de quienes son los dueños de las mercancias cargadas en ellos. Será igualmente licito á los referidos ciudadanos, navegar, con sus buques y mercaderias mencionadas, y traficar con la misma libertad y seguridad , de los lugares, puertos y ensenadas de los enemigos de ambas partes , ó de alguna de ellas, sin ninguna oposicion ó disturbio cualquiera, no solo directamente de los lugares del enemigo arriba mencionados á lugares neutros, sino tambien de un lugar perteneciente a un enemigo, á otro enemigo, ya sea que esten bajo la jurisdiccion de una potencia, ó bajo la de diversas. Y queda aqui estipulado, que los buques libres dan tambien libertad á las mercaderias, y que se ha de considerar libre y esento, todo lo que se hallare á bordo de los buques pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de cualquiera de las partes contratantes, aun que toda la carga ó parte de ella pertenezca á enemigos de una ú otra, esceptuando siempre articulos de contrabando de guerra. Se conviene tambien del mismo modo, en que la misma libertad se estie la á las personas que se encuentren á bordo de buques libres, con el fin de que aunque dichas personas sean enemigos de ambas partes ó de alguna de ellas, no deban ser estraidos de los buques libres á menos que sean oficiales ó soldados en actual servicio de los enemigos : á condicion no obstante, y se conviene aqui en esto, que las estipulaciones contenidas en el presente articulo, declarando que el pabellon cubre la propiedad, se entenderán aplicables solamente á aquellas potencias que reconocen este principio ; pero si alguna de las dos partes contratantes, estuviere en guerra con una tercera, y la otra permaneciese neutral , la bandera de la neutral cubrirá la propiedad de los enemigos cuyos Gobiernos reconocen este principio, y no de otros.
ARTICULO XVI.
Se conviene igualmente que en caso de que la bandera neutral de una de las partes contratantes, proteja las propriedades de los enemigos de la otra, en virtud de lo estipulado arriba, debera siempre entenderse, que las propiedades neutrales encontradas á bordo de tales buques enemigos, han de tenerse y considerarse como propiedades enemigas, y como tales estarán sujetas á detencion y confiscacion ; esceptuando solamente aquellas propiedades que hubiesen sido puestas á bordo de tales buques antes de la declaracion de la guerra , y aun des-
2V

542

TREATY WITH ECUADOR . 1833.

ing parties agree , that six months having elapsed after the declaration, their citizens shall not plead ignorance thereof. On the contrary, if the flag of the neutral does not protect the enemy's property, in that
case, the goods and merchandises of the neutral, embarked in such enemy's ship , shall be free.

ARTICLE XVII.

Contraband specified.

This liberty of navigation and commerce shall extend to all kinds of merchandise, excepting those only which are distinguished by the name of contraband and under this name of contraband or prohibited goods, shall be comprehended :
Ist. Cannons , mortars, howitzers , swivels, blunderbusses, muskets , fusees, rifles, carbines, pistols, pikes, swords, sabres, lances, spears, halberds, and grenades ; bombs, powder , matches, balls, and all other things belonging to the use of these arms.
2d. Bucklers, helmets, breastplates, coats of mail, infantry belts , and clothes made up in military form, and for military use.
3d. Cavalry belts, and horses with their furniture. 4th. And generally, all kinds of arms and instruments of iron , steel, brass, and copper, or of any other materials , manufactured , prepared, and formed expressly to make war , by sea or land.

ARTICLE XVIII.

Goods not contraband.

All other merchandises and things, not comprehended in the articles of contraband explicitly enumerated and classified as above , shall be held and considered as free, and subjects of free and lawful commerce,

Definition of a blockade.

so that they may be carried and transported in the freest manner, by the citizens of both the contracting parties, even to places belonging to an enemy, excepting only those places which are, at that time, besieged or blockaded : and to avoid all doubt in this particular , it is declared that those places only are besieged or blockaded which are actually attacked by a belligerent force capable of preventing the entry of a neutral.

ARTICLE XIX.

Contraband only liable to confiscation.

The articles of contraband before enumerated and classified, which may be found in a vessel bound for an enemy's port, shall be subject to detention and confiscation, leaving free the rest of the cargo and

the ship, that the owners may dispose of them as they may see proper.

Vessels deliv- No vessel of either of the two nations shall be detained on the high ering up contra- seas, on account of having on board articles of contraband, whenever

bdeatnadinneodt. to be the master, captain, or supercargo of said vessel will deliver up the articles of contraband to the captor, unless the quantity of such arti-

cles be so great, or of so large a bulk, that they cannot be received on

board the capturing ship without great inconvenience ; but in this and

in all other cases of just detention , the vessel detained shall be sent to

the nearest convenient and safe port, for trial and judgment according to law.

ARTICLE XX .
In cases of And whereas it frequently happens that vessels sail for a port or btolobcekandotei,fvieesdsbeults places belonging to an enemy, without knowing that the same is benot detained, &c. sieged , blockaded or invested, it is agreed that every vessel , so cir-
cumstanced, may be turned away from such port or place, but shall not be detained, nor shall any part of her cargo, if not contraband , be confiscated ; unless, after warning of such blockade or investment, from any officer commanding a vessel of the blockading forces, they shall again attempt to enter ; but she shall be permitted to go to any other port or place she shall think proper.

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

543

pues, si hubiesen sido embarcadas en dichos buques sin tener noticia de la guerra : y se conviene que pasados seis meses despues de la declaracion, los ciudadanos de una y otra parte no podrán alegar que la ignoraban. Por el contrario, si la bandera neutral no protegiese las propiedades enemigas, entonces serán libres los efectos y mercaderias de la parte neutral embarcadas en buques enemigos.
ARTICULO XVII.
Esta libertad de navegacion y comercio se estenderá á todo genero de mercaderias, esceptuando aquellas solamente que se distinguen con el nombre de contrabando ; y bajo este nombre de contrabando ó efectos prohibidos, se comprenderán.
1º. Cañones , morteros, obuces, pedreros, trabucos , mosquetes, fusiles, rifles, carabinas, pistolas, picas, espadas, sables, lanzas, chuzos, alabardas, y granadas, bómbas, pólvora, mechas, balas, con las demas cosas correspondientes al uso de estas armas.
2°. Escudos, casquetes, corazas, cotas de malla, fornituras, y vestidos hechos, en forma y á usanza militar.
3°. Bandoleras y caballos, junto con sus armas y arneses. 4°. Y generalmente , toda especie de armas é instrumentos de hierro, acero, bronce, cobre, y otras materias cualesquiera, manufacturadas, preparadas y formadas espresamente para hacer la guerra por mar ó tierra.
ARTICULO XVIII.
Todas las demas mercaderias y efectos no comprendidos en los articulos de contrabando esplicitamente enumerados y clasificados en el articulo anterior, serán tenidos y reputados por libres, y de licito y libre comercio, de modo que ellos puedan ser transportados y llevados de la manera mas libre por los ciudadanos de ambas partes contratantes, aun á los lugares pertenecientes á un enemigo de una ú otra, esceptuando solamente aquellos lugares ó plazas que estan al mismo tiempo sitiadas ó bloqueadas, y para evitar toda duda en el particular, se declaran sitiadas ó bloqueadas aquellas plazas que en la actualidad estuviesen atacadas por una fuerza de un beligerante capaz de impedir la entrada del neutral.
ARTICULO XIX .
Los articulos de contrabando antes enumerados y clasificados, que
se hallen en un buque destinado á puerto enemigo, estarán sujetos á detencion y confiscacion, dejando libre el resto del cargamento y el buque para que los dueños puedan disponer de ellos como lo crean conveniente. Ningun buque de cualquiera de las dos naciones, será detenido por tener á bordo articulos de contrabando, siempre que el maestre, capitan ó sobrecargo de dicho buque, quiera entregar los articulos de contrabando al apresador , á menos que la cantidad de estos articulos sea tan grande y de tanto volúmen que no puedan ser recibidos á bordo del buque apresador sin grandes inconvenientes ; pero en este, como en todos los otros casos de justa detencion , el buque detenido será enviado al puerto mas inmediato, comodo y seguro, para ser juzgado y sentenciado conforme á las leyes.
ARTICULO XX.
Y por cuanto frecuentemente sucede que los buques navegan para un puerto ó lugar perteneciente á un enemigo, sin saber que aquel esté sitiado, bloqueado ó investido , se conviene en que todo buque en estas circunstancias se pueda hacer volver de dicho puerto ó lugar, pero no será detenido ni confiscado parte alguna de su cargamento, no siendo contrabando ; á menos que despues de la intimacion de semejante bloqueo ó ataque por cualquier comandante de un buque de las fuerzas bloqueadoras, intentase otra vez entrar ; pero le será permitido ir a cualquier otro puerto ó lugar que juzgue conveniente. Ni nin

544

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

Vessels entering before blockade, Nor shall any vessel of either, that may have entered into such port

may quit unmo- before the same was actually besieged, blockaded or invested by the

lested ;

other, be restrained from quitting such place with her cargo ; nor, if

found therein, after the reduction and surrender, shall such vessel or

Adinsdturnboedt twohbene her cargo be liable to confiscation, but they shall be restored to the found therein. owners thereof.

ARTICLE XXI.

During a visit at sea,armed vessels

In order to prevent all kinds of disorder, in the visiting and exa:ni-

to remain out of nation of the ships and cargoes of both the contracting parties, on the

cannot shot-ex- high seas, they have agreed, mutually, that, whenever a vessel of war,

baem mnaatdieon, ,&hocw. to public or private , shall meet with a neutral of the other contracting party, the first shall remain out of cannon shot, and may send its boats,

with two or three men only, in order to execute the said examination

of the papers, concerning the ownership and cargo of the vessel,

without causing the least extortion, violence or ill treatment, for which

the commanders of the said armed ships shall be responsible, with

their persons and property : for which purpose, the commanders of the

said private armed vessels shall, before receiving their commissions,

give sufficient security to answer for all the damages they may commit ;

and it is expressly agreed, that the neutral party shall, in no case, be

required to go on board the examining vessel for the purpose of exhibiting his papers, or for any other purpose whatever.

ARTICLE XXII.
In case of war, To avoid all kind of vexation and abuse in the examination of the
sfiecaa-tleestteorfs,ccaerrgtio-, papers relating to the ownership of the vessels belonging to the citi&c.to befurnish zens of the two contracting parties, they have agreed, and do agree, ed, showing to that in case one of them should be engaged in war, the ships and veswerhtyobmeltohnegsp. rop- sels belonging to the citizens of the other must be furnished with sea-
letters or passports, expressing the name, property, and bulk of the ships ; as also the name and place of habitation of the master and commander of said vessel, in order that it may thereby appear that
said ship truly belongs to the citizens of one of the parties. They have likewise agreed, that such ships being laden, besides the said sealetters or passports, shall also be provided with certificates containing the several particulars of the cargo, and the place whence the ship sailed, so that it may be known whether any forbidden or contraband goods be on board the same ; which certificates shall be made out by the officers of the place whence the ship sailed, in the accustomed form without such requisites said vessels may be detained , to be adjudged by the competent tribunal, and may be declared legal prize, unless the said defect shall be proved to be owing to accident, and satisfied or supplied by testimony entirely equivalent.
ARTICLE XXIII.
Visiting regula- It is further agreed that the stipulations above expressed , relative to tions apply only the visiting and examination of vessels, shall apply only to those which to vessels without sail without convoy ; and when said vessels shall be under convoy , the convoy.
verbal declaration of the commander of the convoy, on his word of
honor , that the vessels under his protection belong to the nation whose flag he carries ; and when they are bound to an enemy's port, that they have no contraband goods on board, shall be sufficient.

ARTICLE XXIV.

Prize causes to It is further agreed that, in all cases , the established courts for

btaebltirisehdedin tchoeuretss prize causes, in the country to which the prizes may be conducted ,

only.

shall alone take cognizance of them ; and whenever such tribunals ,

TREATY WITH ECUADOR . 1839.

545

gun buque de una de las partes que haya entrado en semejante puerto ó lugar, antes que estuviese sitiado, bloqueado ó investido por la otra, será impedido de dejar el tal lugar con su cargamento, ni si fuere hallado alli despues de la rendicion y entrega de semejante lugar, estará el tal buque ó su cargamento sujeto á confiscacion , sino que serán restituidos á sus dueños.

ARTICULO XXI.

Para evitar todo genero de desorden en la visita y ecsámen de los buques y cargamentos de ambas partes contratantes en alta mar, han convenido mutuamente, que siempre que un buque de guerra público ó particular se encontrase con un neutral de la otra parte contratante, el primero permanecerá fuera de tiro de cañon, y podrá mandar su bote con dos ó tres hombres solamente, para ejecutar el dicho ecsámen de los papeles concernientes á la propiedad y carga del buque, sin ocasionar la menor estorsion , violencia ó mal tratamiento, por lo que los comandantes de dichos buques armados serán responsables con sus personas y bienes ; á cuyo efecto los comandantes de buques armados, por cuenta de particulares, estarán obligados antes de entregarseles sus comisiones ó patentes, á dar fianza suficiente para responder de los perjuicios que causen. Y se ha convenido espresamente, que en ningun caso se ecsigirá á la parte neutral que vaya á bordo del buque ecsaminador con el fin de ecisibir sus papeles, ó para cualquier otro objeto, sea el que fuere.

ARTICULO XXII.
Para evitar toda clase de vejamen y abuso en el ecsamen de los papeles relativos á la propiedad de los buques pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de las dos partes contratantes, han convenido y convienen que en caso de que una de ellas estuviere en guerra, los buques y bajeles pertenecientes á los ciudadanos de la otra, serán provistos con letras de mar ó pasaportes, espresando el nombre, propiedad y tamaño del buque, como tambien el nombre y lugar de la residencia del maestre ó comandante, á fin de que se vea que el buque real y verdaderamente pertenece á los ciudadanos de una de las partes ; y han convenido igualmente, que estando cargados los expresados buques, ademas de las letras de mar ó pasaportes, estarán tambien provistos de certificados, que contengan los por menores del cargamento y el lugar de donde salió el buque, para que asi pueda saberse si hay á su bordo algunos efectos prohibidos ó de contrabando, cuyos certificados serán hechos por los oficiales del lugar de la procedencia del buque en la forma acostumbrada ; sin tales requisitos el dicho buque puede ser detenido, para ser juzgado por el tribunal competente, y puede ser declarado buena presa á menos que prueben que la falta emana de accidente y satisfagan ó suplan el defecto con testimonios enteramente equivalentes.
ARTICULO XXIII.
Se ha convenido ademas, que las estipulaciones anteriores relativas al ecsámen y visita de buques , se aplicarán solamente á los que nave-
gan sin convoy, y cuando los dichos buques estuviesen bajo de convoy, será bastante la declaracion verbal del comandante del convoy, bajo su palabra de honor , de que los buques que estan bajo su proteccion pertenecen á la nacion cuya bandera llevan ; y cuando se dirijen á un puerto enemigo, que dichos buques no tienen á su bordo articulos de contrabando de guerra.

ARTICULO XXIV.

Se ha convenido ademas, que en todos los casos que ocurran, solo los tribunales establecidos para causas de presas en el pais á que las

presas sean conducidas tomarán conocimiento de ellas. Y siempre que

VOL. III. 69

2v2

546

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

of either party, shall pronounce judgment against any vessel, or goods,

or property claimed by the citizens of the other party, the sentence or

Decree of con- decree shall mention the reasons or motives , on which the same shall

fdoermtnhatthieonretaososnest have been founded, and an authenticated copy of the sentence or de-

thereof.

cree, and of all the proceedings in the case, shall , if demanded, be de

livered to the commander or agent of said vessel , without any delay,

he paying the legal fees for the same.

ARTICLE XXV.

Citizens of nei-
ther party to engage in the service of an enemy of the other.

Whenever one of the contracting parties shall be engaged in war with another state, no citizen of the other contracting party shall accept a commission or letter of marque, for the purpose of assisting or co-operating hostilely with the said enemy, against the said party so at war, under the pain of being considered as a pirate.

In case of war, merchants allowed time toarrange
their business, and transport
their effects, & c.

ARTICLE XXVI.
If, by any fatality, which cannot be expected, and which God forbid , the two contracting parties should be engaged in a war with each other, they have agreed, and do agree, now for then, that there shall be allowed the term of six months to the merchants residing on the coasts and in the ports of each other, and the term of one year to those who

dwell in the interior, to arrange their business and transport their ef-

fects wherever they please, giving to them the safe-conduct necessary for it, which may serve as a sufficient protection, until they arrive at

Citizens of oth- the designated port. The citizens of all other occupations, who may
er occupations to be established in the territories or dominions of the United States and be protected.
the Republic of Ecuador , shall be respected and maintained in the full

enjoyment oftheir personal liberty and property, unless their particular

conduct shall cause them to forfeit this protection , which, in consider-

ation of humanity, the contracting parties engage to give them.

ARTICLE XXVII.

No confiscations Neither the debts due from individuals of the one nation to the inin case of war. dividuals of the other , nor shares, nor moneys which they may have
in public funds, nor in public nor private banks, shall ever, in any event of war , or of national difference, be sequestered or confiscated.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

Ministers and
other public agents to enjoy the same favors as those of the most favored nation.

Both the contracting parties being desirous of avoiding all inequality in relation to their public communications and official intercourse, have agreed , and do agree, to grant to the envoys, ministers and other public agents, the same favors, immunities and exemptions which those of the most favored nation do or shall enjoy ; it being understood , that whatever favors, immunities or privileges, the United States of America or the Republic of Ecuador may find it proper to give to the ministers and other public agents of any other power, shall, by the same act, be extended to those of each of the contracting parties.

ARTICLE XXIX.

Consuls and vice-consuls admitted into ports
coopemnmetrocef.oreign

To make more effectual the protection which the United States and the Republic of Ecuador shall afford in future, to the navigation and commerce of the citizens of each other, they agree to receive and admit consuls and vice-consuls in all the ports open to foreign commerce, who shall enjoy in them all the rights, prerogatives and immunities of the consuls and vice-consuls of the most favored nation ; each contracting party, however, remaining at liberty to except those ports and places in which the admission and residence of such consuls and Vice-consuls may not seem convenient.

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

547

semejante tribunal de cualquiera de las partes, pronunciase sentencia contra algun buque , ó efectos ó propiedad reclamada por los ciudadanos de la otra parte, la sentencia decreto hará mencion de las razo-
nes ó motivos en que aquella se haya fundado, y se entregará sin demora alguna al comandante ó agente de dicho buque, si lo solicitase, un testimonio autentico de la sentencia ó decreto , ó de todo el proceso, pagando por él los derechos legales.
ARTICULO XXV.
Siempre que una de las partes contratantes estuviere empeñada en guerra con otro estado, ningun ciudadano de la otra parte contratante aceptará una comision ó letra de marca para el objeto de ayudar ó cooperar hostilmente con el dicho enemigo contra la dicha parte que esté asi en guerra, bajo la pena de ser tratado como pirata.
ARTICULO XXVI.
Si por alguna fatalidad que no puede esperarse, y que Dios no permita, las dos partes contratantes se viesen empeñadas en guerra una con otra, han convenido y convienen de ahora para entonces, que se concederá el termino de seis meses á los comerciantes residentes en las costas y en los puertos de entrambas, y el termino de un año á los que habitan en el interior, para arreglar sus negocios y transportar sus efectos á donde quieran, dandoles el salvo conducto necesario para ello, que les sirva de suficiente proteccion hasta que lleguen al puerto que designen. Los ciudadanos de otras ocupaciones que se hallen establecidos en los territorios y dominios de la República del Ecuador, ó de los Estados Unidos , serán respetados y mantenidos en el pleno gozo de su libertad personal y propiedad, á menos que su conducta particular les haga perder esta proteccion, que en consideracion á la humanidad, las partes contratantes se comprometan á prestarles.
ARTICULO XXVII.
Ni las deudas contraidas por los individuos de una nacion con los individuos de la otra, ni las acciones ó dineros que puedan tener en los fondos publicos ó en los bancos publicos ó privados, serán jamas secuestrados ó confiscados en ningun caso de guerra ó de diferencia nacional.
ARTICULO XXVIII.
Deseando ambas partes contratantes evitar toda diferencia relativa á etiqueta en sus comuniciones y correspondencias diplomaticas, han convenido asi mismo, y convienen en conceder á sus enviados y ministros y otros agentes diplomaticos, los mismos favores, inmunidades y esenciones de que gozan ó gozaren en lo venidero los de las naciones mas favorecidas ; bien entendido, que cualquier favor, inmunidad ó privelegio que la República del Ecuador ó los Estados Unidos de America tengan por conveniente dispensar á los enviados, ministros y agentes diplomaticos de otras potencias, se haga por el mismo hecho estensivo á los de una y otra de las partes contratantes.
ARTICULO XXIX.
Para hacer mas efectiva la proteccion que la República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos darán en adelante á la navegacion y comercio de los ciudadanos de una y otra, se convienen en recibir y admitir consules y vice-consules en todos los puertos abiertos al comercio estrangero, quienes gozarán en ellos de todos los derechos, prerogativas é inmunidades de los consules y vice-consules de la nacion mas favorecida ; quedando no ostante en libertad cada parte contratante, para esceptuar aquellos puertos y lugares en que la admision y residencia de semejantes consules y vice-consules no parezca conveniente

548

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

ARTICLE XXX.

Consuls to ex- In order that the consuls and vice-consuls of the two contracting
hibit their com- parties may enjoy the rights, prerogatives and immunities which belong mtaiisnsionesxeaqnuadtoubrs- to them by their public character, they shall, before entering on the before they shall exercise of their functions, exhibit their commission or patent in due be considered as form to the government to which they are accredited ; and, having obsuch.
tained their exequatur, they shall be held and considered as such, by
all the authorities, magistrates and inhabitants in the consular district in which they reside.
ARTICLE XXXI.

Consuls, & c., It is likewise agreed that the consuls, their secretaries, officers and
teaxienmtpatxfesr.om cer- persons attached to the service of consuls, they not being citizens of the country in which the consul resides, shall be exempted from all
kinds of taxes, imposts and contributions, except those which they
shall be obliged to pay on account of commerce or their property, to which the citizens and inhabitants, native and foreign , of the country
in which they reside , are subject ; being, in every thing besides, subTheir archives ject to the laws of the respective states. The archives and papers of
and papers invio- the consulates shall be respected inviolably ; and, under no pretext lable.
whatever, shall any magistrate seize or in any way interfere with them.

ARTICLE XXXII.

Consuls may The said consuls shall have power to require the assistance of the rteaqnuciereofthteheassaius-- authorities of the country, for the arrest, detention and custody of de-

thorities in secu- serters from the public and private vessels of their country ; and for ring deserters. that purpose they shall address themselves to the courts, judges, and

officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters in writing ;

Mode of pro- proving by an exhibition of the register of the vessel's or ship's roll,

ceeding.

or other public documents, that those men were part of the said crews,

and on this demand, so proved, (saving, however, where the contrary

is proved, ) the delivery shall not be refused. Such deserters , when

arrested, shall be put at the disposal of said consuls, and may be put

Deserters, how in the public prisons, at the request and expense of those who reclaim to be disposed of. them, to be sent to the ships to which they belonged, or to others of

the same nation. But if they be not sent back within two months , to

be counted from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

ARTICLE XXXIII.

For the purpose of more effectually protecting their commerce and

veAntcioonnsultaor cobne- navigation, the two contracting parties do hereby agree, as soon here-

formed.

after as circumstances will permit them, to form a consular convention,

which shall declare, especially, the powers and immunities of the con-

suls and vice-consuls of the respective parties.

ARTICLE XXXIV.

Construction to It is further agreed, that the words, " most favored nation," that be put upon the occur in this treaty, shall not be so construed as to prevent either of

vwoorredds,na"tmioons.t"fa- the contracting parties from concluding any treaty or convention with

any other nation or state it may think proper, as freely and as fully as

Proviso.

though said words were not used : Provided, however, That notwith-

standing any such treaty or convention , the citizens of the United

States shall be placed in Ecuador, with respect to navigation and commerce, upon an equal footing with the subjects of Spain and with the

citizens of Mexico and of the other Hispano-American States, with which treaties have been , or may be, concluded ; and that the citizens of Ecuador shall be entitled to enjoy, in the United States, the same rights and privileges, with respect to navigation and commerce, that the citizens of the United States enjoy, or shall enjoy, in Ecuador.

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

549

ARTICULO XXX.
Para que los consules y vice-consules de las dos partes contratantes puedan gozar de los derechos, prerogativas é inmunidades que les correspondan por su caracter publico, antes de entrar en el ejercicio de sus funciones, presentarán su comision ó patente, en la forma debida, al Gobierno con quien esten acreditatos, y habiendo obtenido el exequatur, serán tenidos y consideraros como tales , por todas las autoridades, magistrados y habitantes del distrito consular en que residan.
ARTICULO XXXI.
Se ha convenido igualmente que los consules, sus secretarios, oficiales y personas agregadas al servicio de los consulados, (no siendo estas personas ciudadanos del pais en que el consul reside, ) estarán escentos de toda clase de pechos, impuestos y contribuciones, esceptuando aquellos que estén obligados á pagar por razon ce comercio ó propiedad , y á los cuales estan sujetos los ciudadanos y habitantes naturales y estrangeros del pais en que residen, quedando en todo lo demas, sujetos á las leyes de los respectivos estados. Los archivos y papeles de los consulados serán respetados inviolablemente, y bajo ningun pretesto los ocupará magistrado alguno, ni tendrá con ellos ninguna intervencion.
ARTICULO XXXII.
Los dichos consules tendrán poder de requerir el ausilio de las autoridades locales para la prision , detencion y custodia de los desertores de los buques publicos y particulares, de su pais, y para este objeto se dirijirán á los tribunales, jueces y oficiales competentes, y pedirán los dichos desertores por escrito, probando por una presentacion de los registros de los buques, rol de equipage ú otros documentos públicos, que aquellos hombres, eran parte de las dichas tripulaciones, y á esta demanda así probada (menos, no ostante, cuando se probase lo contrario) no se recusará la entrega. Semejantes desertores luego que sean arrestados, se pondrán á disposicion de los dichos consules, y pueden ser depositados en las prisiones públicas, á solicitud y espensas de los que los reclamen, para ser enviados á los buques á que correspondan ó á otros de la misma nacion. Pero sino fueren mandados dentro de dos meses contados desde el dia de su arresto, serán puestos en libertad, y no volverán á ser presos por la misma causa.
ARTICULO XXXIII .
Para proteger mas efectivamente su comercio y navegacion , las dos partes contratantes se convienen en formar luego que las circunstancias lo permitan, una convencion consular, que declare mas especialmente los poderes é inmunidades de los consules y vice-consules de las partes respectivas.
ARTICULO XXXIV. Se conviene ademas, que las palabras, " la nacion mas favorecida," que se encuentran en este tratado, no serán entendidas de modo, que impidan á la una ó á la otra, de las partes contratantes, celebrar el tratado ó convenio, con cualquier nacion ó estado, que tenga por conveniente, tan libre y estensamente, como si dichas palabras no ecsistiesen ; con tal que, no ostante tal tratado ó convenio, los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos, estén puestos, en el Ecuador, con respecto á navegacion y comercio, sobre un pie igual con los subditos de la España, y con los ciudadanos de Mejico y de los otros estados Hispano-Americanos, con quienes haya de tratar ó tenga tratados ecsistentes ; y que los ciudadanos del Ecuador sean admitidos à gozar , en los Estados Unidos, de los mismos derechos y privilegics, respecto de navegacion y comercio, que gozan ó gozaren los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos en el Ecuador

550

TREATY WITH ECUADOR. 1839.

ARTICLE XXXV.

Points agreed The United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador , desir

upon as to the duration of this

ing

to

make

as

durable

as

circumstances

will

permit,

the

relations

treaty.

which are to be established between the two parties, by virtue of this

treaty of peace, amity, commerce and navigation , have declared sol-

emnly, and do agree to the following points : To remain in 1st. The present treaty shall remain in full force and virtue for the

f&orcc. e 12 years, term of twelve years, to be counted from the day of exchange of the ratifications, and further, until the end of one year after either of the
contracting parties shall have given notice to the other of its intention

to terminate the same ; each of the contracting parties reserving to itself the right of giving such notice to the other at the end of said term

of twelve years : And it is hereby agreed between them, that, on the

expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by

either, from the other party, this treaty, in all its parts relative to

commerce and navigation , shall altogether cease and determine , and in

all those parts which relate to peace and friendship , it shall be perpetually and permanently binding on both powers.

Citizens person- 2d. If any one or more of the citizens of either party shall infringe

ally responsible any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen shall be held personally aorrtiicnlfer. inging this responsible for the same, and harmony and good correspondence be-
tween the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby, each party

engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such vio-

lation.

3d. If (what indeed cannot be expected) unfortunately, any ofthe

Reprisals not to articles contained in the present treaty, shall be violated or infringed in be authorized,nor any way whatever, it is expressly stipulated, that neither of the contractwar declared, un-
til justice has ing parties will order or authorize any act of reprisal , nor declare war

baenednredfeumsaednd, eord against the other on complaints of injuries or damages, until the said unreasonably de- party considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other,

layed.

a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proofs,

Treaties with other powers not contravened by this.

and demanded justice, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed .
4th. Nothing in this treaty shall , however, be construed or operate
contrary to former and existing public treaties with other sovereigns and states.

This treaty to
be ratified and
the ratifications to be exchanged, within 3 years.

The present treaty of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation, shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the President of the Republic of Ecuador , with the consent and approbation of the Congress of the same ; and the ratifications shall be

exchanged in the city of Quito, within three years, to be counted from the date ofthe signature hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In faith whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries of the United States of

Signed 13th June, 1839.

America and of the Republic of Ecuador, have signed and sealed these presents.
Done in the city of Quito, on the thirteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, and in the sixty-third year of the Independence of the United States of America

and the twenty-ninth of that of the Republic of Ecuador. J. C. PICKETT , [L.

LUIS DE SAA' , [ L. S.]

TREATY WITH ECUADOR . 1839.

551

ARTICULO XXXV.
La República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos de Americà, dese ando hacer tan duraderas y firmes como las circunstancias lo permitan, las relacionas que han de establecerse entre las dos potencias en virtud del presente tratado de paz, amistad, navegacion y comercio, han declarado solemnemente, y convienen en los puntos siguientes :
1°. El presente tratado permanecerá en su fuerza y vigor por el termino de doce años , contados desde el dia del cange de las ratificaciones, y ademas hasta un año despues que cualquiera de las partes contratantes haya notificado á la otra su intencion de terminarlo ; reservandose las partes contratantes el derecho de hacer tal notificacion la una á la otra al fin de dicho termino de doce años. Y ademas se ha convenido que este tratado, en todo lo relativo á comercio y navegacion, quedará sin efecto transcurrido que sea un año despues de recibida dicha notificacion por cualquiera de las dos partes, y en todo lo relativo á paz y amistad , sera perpetuamente obligatorio á ambos poderes.
2º. Si alguno ó algunos de los ciudadanos de una ú otra parte infringiesen algunos de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado, dichos ciudadanos serán personalmente responsables, sin que por esto se interrumpa la armonia y buena correspondencia entre las dos naciones, comprometiendose cada una á no protejer de modo alguno al ofensor, ó sancionar semejante violacion.
3°. Si, (lo que á la verdad no puede esperarse,) desgraciadamente algunos de los articulos contenidos en el presente tratado fuesen en alguna otra manera violados ó infringidos, se estipula espresamente que ninguna de las dos partes contratantes ordenará ó autorizará ningunos actos de represalia, ni declararará la guerra contra la otra, por quejas de injurias ó daños , hasta que la parte que se crea ofendida, haya presentado á la otra una esposicion de aquellas injurias ó daños , verificada con pruebas y testimonios suficientes , ecsigiendo justicia y satisfaccion, y esto haya sido negado ó diferido sin razon.
4°. Nada de cuanto se contiene en el presente tratado, se construirá sin embargo, ni obrará en contra de otros tratados públicos anteriores, ecsistentes con otros soberanos ó estados.
El presente tratado de paz, amistad, comercio, y navegacion será ratificado por el Presidente ó Vice Presidente de la República del Ecuador, encargado del poder ejecutivo, con consentimiento y aprobacion del Congreso de la misma, y por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, con consejo y aprobacion del Senado de los mismos ; y las ratificaciones serán cangeadas en la ciudad de Quito dentro de tres años contados desde este dia, ó antes si fuere posible.
En fe de lo cual, nosotros los plenipotenciaros de la República del Ecuador y de los Estados Unidos de America, hemos firmado y sellado las presentes.
Dadas en la ciudad de Quito , el dia trece de Junio del año del Señor, mil ochocientos treinta y nueve, vigesimo nono de la Yndependencia de la República del Ecuador y sexagesimo tercero de la de los Estados Unidos de America.
LUIS DE SAA', [ L. S. J. C. PICKETT, L. S

May 20, 1840.

TREATY WITH THE KING OF HANOVER.

Ratifications exchanged , Nov. 14, 1840. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., Jan. 2, 1841.
Negotiators.

The United States of America and His Majesty the King of Hanover, equally animated by the desire of extending as far as possible the commercial relations between, and the exchange of the productions of their respective states, have agreed, with this view, to conclude a treaty of commerce and navigation .
For this purpose, the President of the United States of America has furnished with full powers, Henry Wheaton, their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of Prussia ; and His Majesty the King of Hanover has furnished with the like full powers, Le Sieur Auguste de Berger, his Envoy Extraordinary and

Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of Prussia, Lieutenant-General, Knight Grand-Cross of the order of Guelph, the red eagle of Prussia, the order of merit of Oldenburg & c. , who after exchanging their said full powers, found in good and due form, have concluded and signed, subject to ratification, the following articles.

ART. I.

Reciprocal liberty of commerce and navi.
gation. Inhabitants of either allowed admission into the territories of the other.
Residence , & c. permitted them .

There shall be between the territories of the High Contracting Parties a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation.
The inhabitants of their respective states shall mutually have liberty to enter, with or without their ships, and cargoes, the ports, places, waters and rivers of the territories of each party wherever foreign commerce is permitted.
They shall be permitted to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever of said territories, in order to attend to their affairs, and also to hire and
occupy houses and warehouses, for the purposes of their commerce,

provided they submit to the laws as well general as special, relative to

the right of residing and trading.

Allowed to manage their own business.

Whilst they conform to the laws and regulations in force, they shall be at liberty to manage themselves their own business in all the territo-
ries subject to the jurisdiction of each party, in respect to the consign-

ment, and sale of their goods, by wholesale or retail, as with respect to

the loading, unloading and sending off their ships, or to employ such

agents and brokers as they may deem proper, they being, in all these

cases, to be treated as the citizens or subjects of the country in which

they reside, it being nevertheless understood that they shall remain sub-

ject to the said laws and regulations also in respect to sales by wholesale or retail.

Free access to They shall have free access to the tribunals of justice in their litigious

tribunals ofjus- affairs on the same terms which are granted by the law and usage of tice.
the country to native citizens or subjects, for which purpose they may

employ in defence of their rights such advocates, attorneys and other

agents as they may judge proper.

ART. II.

Duties to be the same as on
national vessels.
Vessels to which the privi. leges secured by this article extend.

No higher or other duties shall be imposed in any of the ports of the United States on Hanoverian vessels, than those payable in the same ports by vessels of the United States ; nor in the ports of the Kingdom of Hanover on the vessels of the United States than shall be payable in the same ports on Hanoverian vessels.
The privileges secured by the present article to the vessels of the respective high contracting parties shall only extend to such as are built within their respective territories, or lawfully condemned as prize of
(552)

TRAITÉ À LE ROI DE HANÔVRE.

Les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi de Hanôvre, également animés du désir d'étendre autant que possible les relations commerciales, et l'échange des produits entre leurs états respectifs, sont convenus, dans ce but, de conclure un traité de commerce et de navi-
gation. A cet effet, le Président des Etats Unis d'Amérique a muni de pleins
pouvoirs Henry Wheaton, leur Envoyé Extraordinaire et ministre plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse ; et Sa Majesté le Roi de Hanovre a muni des mêmes pouvoirs le Sieur Auguste de Berger, son envoyé extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté le Roi de Prusse, Lieutenant Général, Chevalier Grand-Croix de l'ordre des Guelphes, de l'aigle rouge de Prusse, de l'ordre pour le mérite d'Oldenburg, & c. & c. & c.; lesquels plénipotentiaires, après avoir échangé leurs dits pleins pouvoirs trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et signé, sous la réserve de la ratification, les articles suivans.

ART. I.
Il y aura entre les territoires des Hautes Partes Contractantes liberte et reciprocité de commerce et de navigation.
Les habitants de leurs états respectifs pourront, réciproquement, entrer avec ou sans leurs vaisseaux et cargaisons, dans les ports, places, eaux, et rivières des territoires de chacune d'elles , partout où le commerce étranger est permis.
Ils seront libres de s'y arrêter et résider dans quelque partie que ce soit des dits territoires, pour y vaquer à leurs affaires, et de louer et occuper des maisons et magazins pour leur négoce, pourvu qu'ils se soumettent aux lois, tant générales que spéciales, rélatives au droit d'y résider et d'y faire le commerce.
En se conformant aux lois et règlemens en vigueur, ils pourront, euxmêmes diriger librement leurs propres affaires dans tous les territoires soumis à la juridiction de chacune d'elles, tant pour ce qui a rapport à la consignation et à la vente, en gros et en détail , de leurs denrées et marchandises, que pour ce qui regarde le chargement, déchargement, et expédition de leurs bâtimens, ou d'employer tels agens et courtiers qu'ils trouveront convenables ; ils seront, dans tous ces cas, traités comme les citoyens ou sujets du pays dans lequel ils résident ; néanmoins, il est bien entendu qu'ils restent assujettis aux dits lois et règlemens, aussi en ce qui regarde les ventes en gros et en détail.
Ils auront pleine liberté de recourir aux tribunaux de justice pour leurs affaires litigeuses aux mêmes conditions qui seront accordées par la loi et l'usage aux citoyens ou sujets du pays, et d'employer dans leurs procès, pour la défence de leurs droits, tels avocats, avoués, ou autres agens qu'ils trouveront convenables de choisir.

ART. II.

Il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits ou charges sur les vaisseaux Hanôvriens dans les ports des Etats Unis que ceux payables

dans les mêmes ports par les vaisseaux des Etats Unis ; ni dans les ports

du royaume de Hanôvre sur les vaisseaux des Etats Unis que ceux qui sont payables dans les mêmes ports pas des vaisseaux Hanovriens.

Les privilèges accordés par cet article aux vaisseaux des hautes par-

ties contractantes respectives ne seront applicables qu'aux vaisseaux

construits dans leurs territoires respectifs, ou légalement condamnés

VOL. VIII. 70

2W

(553)

554

TREATY WITH HANOVER. 1840.

war, or adjudged to be forfeited for a breach of the municipal laws of either of the parties, and belonging wholly to their citizens or subjects respectively, and of which the master, officers and two-thirds of the

crew shall consist of the citizens or subjects of the country to which the vessel belongs.

Same duties
on imports,
whether in ves els of U. S. or of Hanover.

The same duties shall be paid on the importation into the ports of the United States of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the Kingdom of Hanover, or of any other country belonging to the Germanic Confederation and the kingdom of Prussia, from whatsoever ports of the said country the said vessels may depart, whether such im-

portation shall be in vessels of the United States or in Hanoverian vessels ; and the same duties shall be paid on the importation intothe ports

of the Kingdom of Hanover, of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States and of every other country of the

continent of America and the West India Islands, from whatsoever ports

of the said countries the vessels may depart whether such importation shall be in Hanoverian vessels or the vessels of the United States.

Same duties on
exports, whether in vessels of U. S. or of Hanover.

The same duties shall be paid and the same bounties allowed on the exportation of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the
Kingdom of Hanover, or of any other country, belonging to the Germanic Confederation and the Kingdom of Prussia, to the United States, whether such exportation shall be in vessels of the United States, or in

Hanoverian vessels, departing from the ports of Hanover, and the same

duties shall be paid and the same bounties allowed on the exportation of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States and of every other country on the continent of America and the West

India Islands, to the Kingdom of Hanover, whether such exportation shall be in Hanoverian vessels or in vessels of the United States, departing from the ports of the United States.

ART. III.

Same duties on
importation of
certain articles, the growth, & c. of either party, as, & c.

No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the Kingdom of Hanover and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation into the Kingdom of Hanover of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States, than are or shall be payable on the like articles, being the growth, produce or manufacture of any other foreign country.

Exportations.

No higher or other duties and charges shall be imposed in the United

States, on the exportation of any articles to the Kingdom of Hanover,

or in Hanover on the exportation of any articles to the United States,

than such as are or shall be payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country.

All prohibitions shall be general.

No prohibition shall be imposed on the exportation or importation of any articles, the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States, or the Kingdom of Hanover , to or from the ports of said Kingdom or

of the said United States, which shall not equally extend to all other nations.

ART. IV.

Coasting trade The preceding articles are not applicable to the coasting trade and

excepted.

navigation of the High Contracting Parties which are respectively re-

served by each exclusively to its own citizens or subjects.

ART. V.

No preference
of importations to be given.

No priority or preference shall be given by either of the Contracting Parties, nor by any company, corporation or agent, acting on their behalf, or under their authority in the purchase of any article of commerce lawfully imported on account or in reference to the nationa.

TREATY WITH HANOVER . 1840.

555

comme de prises de guerre, ou confisqués pour la violation des lois municipales de l'une ou de l'autre des parties, et appartenant exclusivement à leurs citoyens ou sujets respectifs, et desquels le capitaine, les sousofficiers, et les deux tiers de l'équipage seront des citoyens ou sujets du pays auquel le vaisseau appartient.
Les mêmes droits seront payés sur l'importation , dans les ports des Etats Unis, des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du Royaume de Hanôvre, ou de tout autre pays de la Confédération Germanique et du royaume de Prusse, n'importe de quels ports des pays susmentionnés qué ces vaisseaux sortent, si ces mêmes articles sont importés dans les vaisseaux des Etats Unis, ou dans les vaisseaux Hanôvriens ; et les mêmes droits seront payés sur l'importation dans les ports du Royaume de Hanôvre des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, ou de tout autre pays du continent de l'Amérique et des Antilles, n'importe de quels ports des pays susmentionnés que ces vaisseaux sortent, ci ces mêmes articles sont importés dans les vaisseaux Hanôvriens, ou dans les vaisseaux des Etats Unis.
Les mêmes droits seront payés, et les mêmes primes accordées, sur l'exportation aux Etats Unis des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du Royaume de Hanôvre, ou de tout autre pays de la Confédération Germanique et du royaume de Prusse, si ces mêmes articles sont exportés dans les vaisseaux des Etats Unis, ou dans les vaisseaux Hanôvriens qui sortent de ports Hanôvriens ; et les mémes droits seront payés, et les mêmes primes accordées, sur l'exportation au Royaume de Hanôvre des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, et de tout autre pays du continent de l'Amérique et des Antilles, si ces mêmes articles sont exportés dans les vaisseaux Hanôvriens, ou dans ceux des Etats Unis, qui sortent des ports des Etats Unis.

ART. III.
Il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation aux Etats Unis des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie du Royaume de Hanôvre, et il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits sur l'importation dans le Royaume de Hanôvre, des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, que ceux qui sont ou seront imposés sur les mêmes articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de tout autre pays étranger.
Il ne sera imposé d'autres ni de plus forts droits dans les Etats Unis, sur l'exportation des articles de marchandise au Royaume de Hanôvre ou dans le Royaume de Hanôvre sur l'exportation des articles de marchandise aux Etats Unis, que ceux qui sont ou seront imposés sur l'exportation des mêmes articles à tout autre pays étranger.
Il ne sera imposé sur l'exportation ou sur l'importation des articles provenant du sol ou de l'industrie des Etats Unis, ou du royaume de Hanôvre, à la sortie ou à l'entrée du même royaume ou des Etats Unis, aucune prohibition qui ne soit pas également applicable à toute autre nation.
ART. IV.
Les articles précédens ne sont pas applicables au commerce ou à la navigation de côte ou de cabotage des Hautes Parties Contractantes, que l'une et l'autre se réservent exclusivement à ses propres citoyens ou sujets.
ART. V.
Il ne sera accordé par l'une et par l'autre des Parties Contractantes, ni par aucune compagnie, corporation, ou agent agissant en son nom , et par son autorité, aucune priorité ou préférence quelconque, pour l'achat d'aucun objet de commerce légalement importé, à cause ou en con-

556

TREATY WITH HANOVER . 1840.

character of the vessel, whether it be of the one party or of the other in which such article was imported.

ART. VI.

Consuls, & c.

The Contracung Parties grant to each other the liberty of having,

Their authority each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents and com-

and privileges. missaries of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges

and powers as those of the most favored nations ; but if any of the said

consuls, shall carry on trade, they shall be subjected to the same laws

and usages to which private individuals of their nation are subjected in the same place.

Consuls, &c.
to judge and arbitrate in certain cases.
1846, ch. 105.

The consuls, vice-consuls and commercial agents shall have the right, as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as may arise between the masters and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation , whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews or of

the captain should disturb the order or tranquillity of the country; or

the said consuls , vice-consuls or commercial agents should require their

Contending parties not thereby deprived, & c.

assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into effect or supported. It is, however, understood, that this species of judgment or arbitra-
tion shall not deprive the contending parties of the right they have to resort on their return, to the judicial authority of their own country.

Consuls, & c. mayrequire the assistance ofthe local authorities to arrest deserters . Manner in which the demand is to be made.

The said consuls, vice-consuls and commercial agents are authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities for the search, arrest and imprisonment of the deserters from the ships of war, and merchant vessels of their country.
For this purpose they shall apply to the competent tribunals, judges and officers, and shall, in writing, demand said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the registers of the vessels, the muster-rolls of the crews, or by any other official documents, that such individuals formed part of

the crews ; and on this claim being thus substantiated, the surrender

shall not be refused.

Deserters, now to be disposed of.

Such deserters, when arrested , shall be placed at the disposal of the said consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents, and may be confined in the public prisons, at the request and cost of those who shall claim

them , in order to be sent to the vessels to which they belong, or to others of the same country. But if not sent back within three months from the day of their arrest, they shall be set at liberty and shall not be again arrested for the same cause. However if the deserter shall be

found to have committed any crime or offence, his surrender may be

delayed until the tribunal , before which his case shall be pending, shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.
ART. VII.

Power to dis- The citizens or subjects of each party shall have power to dispose of

pose of personal their personal property within the jurisdiction of the other, by sale, do-

property.

nation, testament or otherwise.

Personal representatives may succeed.
Possession to
bmeenhtadof, ocenrptaaiyn duties.

Their personal representatives, being citizens or subjects of the other contracting party, shall succeed to their said personal property, whether by testament or ab intestato.
They may take possession thereof, either by themselves or by others acting for them, at their will, and dispose of the same, paying such duties only as the inhabitants of the country wherein the said personal property is situate, shall be subject to pay in like cases.

Care to be
taken of it in the absence of the
representatives.

In case of the absence of the personal representatives, the same care shall be taken of the said property as would be taken of the property of a native in like case, until the lawful owner may take measures for receiving it.

TREATY WITH HANOVER. 1840.

557

sidération de la nationalité du navire qui aurait importé les dits objets, soit qu'il appartient à l'une des parties soit à l'autre.
ART. VI.
Les Parties Contractantes se sont accordé mutuellement la faculté de tenir dans leurs ports respectifs, des consuls, vice-consuls, agens, ou commissaires de leur choix, qui jouiront des mêmes privilèges et pouvoirs dont jouissent ceux des nations les plus favorisées ; mais dans le cas où les dits consuls veuillent faire le commerce, ils seront soumis aux mêmes lois et usages, auxquels sont soumis les particuliers de leur nation à l'endroit où ils resident.
Les consuls, vice-consuls, et agens commerciaux auront le droit, comme tels , de servir de juges et d'arbitres dans les différends qui pourraient s'éléver entre les capitaines et les équipages des bâtimens de la nation dont ils soignent les interêts, sans que les autorités locales puissent y intervenir, à moins que la conduite des équipages ou du capitaine ne troublât l'ordre ou la tranquillité du pays, ou que les dits consuls, vice-consuls , ou agens commerciaux, ne requissent leur intervention pour exécuter ou maintenir leurs décisions.
Il est, néanmoins, bien entendu que cette espèce de jugement ou d'arbitrage ne saurait pourtant priver les parties contendantes du droit qu'elles ont, à leur retour, de recourir aux autorités judiciaires de leur pays.
Les dits consuls, vice-consuls, ou agens commerciaux, sont autorisés à requérir l'assistance des autorités locales pour la recherche, l'arrestation, la détention, et l'emprisonnement des déserteurs des navires de guerre et marchands de leur pays.
Ils s'adresseront pour cet objet aux tribunaux, juges, et officiers compétens, et réclameront, par écrit, les déserteurs susmentionnés, en prouvant par la communication des régistres des navires, ou rôles d'équipage, ou par d'autres documens officiels, que de tels individus ont fait partie des dits équipages ; et cette réclamation ainsi prouvée, l'extradition ne sera point refusée.
De tels deserteurs, lorsqu'ils auront été arrêtés, seront mis à la disposition des dits consuls, vice-consuls, ou agens commerciaux , et pourront être enfermés dans les prisons publiques, à la réquisition et aux frais de ceux qui les réclament, pour être envoyés aux navires auxquels ils appartenaient, ou à d'autres de la même nation. Mais s'ils ne sont pas renvoyés dans l'espace de trois mois, à compter du jour de leur arrestation, ils seront mis en liberté, et ne seront plus arrêtés pour la même cause. Toutefois, si le déserteur se trouvait avoir commis quelque crime ou délit, il pourra étre sursis à son extradition, jusqu'a ce que le tribunal nanti de l'affaire aura rendu sa sentence, et que celle-ci ait reçu son exécution.
ART. VII.
Les citoyens ou sujets de chacune des Parties Contractantes, auront, dans les états de l'autre, la liberté de disposer de leurs biens meubles et immeubles, soit par vente, donation, testament, ou autrement.
Leurs héritiers, étant sujets ou citoyens de l'autre partie contractante, succéderont à leurs biens, soit en vertu d'un testament ou ab intestato.

Ils pourront en prendre possession , soit en personne, soit par d'autres agissant en leur place, et en disposeront à leur volonté, en ne payant

d'autres droits que ceux auxquels les habitans du pays où se trouvent les dits biens sont assujettis en pareille occasion.

En cas d'absence des héritiers, on prendra provisoirement des dits

biens les mêmes soins qu'on aurait pris en pareille occasion des biens

de natifs du pays, jusqu'à ce que le propriétaire légitime ait agrée des

arrangements pour recueillir l'héritage.

2w2

558

TREATY WITH HANOVER. 1840.

In case of se- If any question should arise among several claimants to which of

veral claimants. them the said property belongs, the same shall be finally decided by the

In case of real
estate, alien heirs allowed time to dispose of the same.

laws and judges of the country wherein it is situate. Where, on the decease of any person , holding real estate within the
territories of one party, such real estate would, by the laws of the land , descend on a citizen or subject of the other were he not disqualified by alienage, such citizen or subject shall be allowed a reasonable time to

sell the same, and to withdraw the proceeds without molestation, and

exempt from all duties of detraction on the part of the government of

the respective states.

Effects, & c.

The capitals and effects which the citizens or subjects of the respective

ofpersons re- parties, in changing their residence, shall be desirous of removing from

fmroovmindgut, ieexse. mpt the place of their domicile, shall likewise be exempt from all duties of detraction or emigration on the part of the respective governments.

ART. VIII .

Right to wrecks abol-
ished.

The ancient and barbarous right to wrecks of the sea shall be entirely abolished with respect to the property belonging to the citizens or subjects of the Contracting Parties.

Assistance in case of shipwreck, & c.

When any vessel of either party shall be wrecked, stranded or otherwise damaged on the coasts, or within the dominions of the other, their respective citizens or subjects shall receive, as well for themselves as for their vessels and effects, the same assistance which would be due to the

inhabitants of the country where the accident happens.

Salvage pay.

They shall be liable to pay the same charges and dues of salvage as

able.

the said inhabitants would be liable to pay in a like case.

Duties payable in case of un-
loading to repair.

If the operations of repair shall require that the whole or any part of the cargo be unloaded, they shall pay no duties of custom, charges or fees, on the part which they shall reload and carry away, except as are payable in the like cases by national vessels.

Cargo liable for storage on goods, &c.

It is nevertheless understood, that if, whilst the vessel is under repair, the cargo shall be unladen, and kept in a place of deposite, destined to receive goods, the duties on which have not been paid, the cargo shall

be liable to the charges and fees lawfully due to the keepers of such warehouses.

ART. IX .

Duration of

The present treaty shall be in force for the term of twelve years from

the treaty.

the date hereof: and further until the end of twelve months after the

Government of the United States on the one part or that of Hanover on

the other, shall have given notice of its intention of terminating the same.
ART . X.

Ratifications to
be exchanged in ten months.

The present treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America by and with the advice and consent of their Senate ; and by His Majesty the King of Hanover ; and the ratifications thereof shall be exchanged at the city of Berlin, within the space of ten months from this date, or sooner if possible.

The signatures in two lan-
guages not to be cited as a
precedent.

In faith whereof the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles as well in French as in English, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms, declaring at the same time that the signature in the two languages shall not hereafter be cited as a precedent, nor in any manner prejudice the contracting parties.

Done in quadruplicate at the city of Berlin the twentieth day of May

in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and forty,

and the sixty-fourth of the independence of the United States of America.

HENRY WHEATON ,

(L. S.,

AUGUSTUS DE BERGER , ( L. s . )

TREATY WITH HANOVER. 1840.

559

S'ils s'élèvent des contestations entre différens prétandans ayant droit à la succession, elles seront decidées en dernier ressort, selon les lois, et par les juges du pays où la succession est vacante.
Si par la mort de quelque personne possédant des biens fonds sur le territoire de l'une des parties contractantes, ces biens fonds venaient à passer à un citoyen ou sujet de l'autre partie ; celui-ci, si par sa qualité d'étranger il est inhabile à les posséder, obtiendra un délai convenable pour les vendre, et pour en retirer le produit sans obstacle, et exempts de tout droit de détraction de la part du Gouvernement des états respectifs.
Les capitaux et fonds que les citoyens ou sujets des parties respectives, en changeant de demeure, voudront faire sortir de l'endroit de leur domicile, seront aussi exempts de tout droit de détraction òu d'émigration de la part des Gouvernemens respectifs.
ART. VIII.
L'ancien et barbare droit de naufrage sera entièrement aboli à l'égard des sujets ou citoyens des deux Parties Contractantes.
Au cas que quelque vaisseaux appartenant à l'une des parties contractantes aurait fait naufrage, échoué, ou souffert quelque autre avarie sur les côtes ou sous la domination de l'autre, les sujets ou citoyens respectifs recevront, tant pour eux que pour les vaisseaux et effets, la même assistance qui aurait été fournie aux habitans du pays où l'accident arrive.
Ils payeront seulement les mêmes charges et droits de sauvetage, auxquels les dits habitans auraient été assujettis en pareil cas.
Si la réparation du vaisseau exigeait que la cargaison fût déchargée en tout ou en partie, ils ne payeront aucun impôt, charge, ou droit, de ce qui sera rembarqué et remporté, qui ne soit ou sera payé en pareil cas par les vaisseaux nationaux de leurs cargaisons.
Toutefois il est entendu , que si pendant la réparation d'un vaisseau , la cargaison était déchargée et gardée dans un dépôt destinés à recevoir les marchandises, dont les droits n'ont pas encore été payés, la cargaison ne pourra pas être exemptée des charges et droits dûs aux entre preneurs des dépôts susmentionnés.
ART. IX .
Le présent traité sera en vigueur pendant douze ans, à dater de ce
Jour; et au delà de ce terme jusqu'à l'expiration de douze mois après que le Gouvernement des Etats Unis d'une part, ou celui du Hanovre de l'autre, aura annoncé à l'autre son intention de le terminer.

ART. X.
Le présent traité sera approuvé et ratifié par le President des Etats Unis d'Amérique, par et avec l'avis et le consentement du Sénat des dits Etats, et par Sa Majesté le Roi de Hanôvre ; et les ratifications en seront échangées en la ville de Berlin dans l'espace de dix mois, à dater de ce jour, ou plutôt si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, les plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci-dessus, tant en Français qu'en Anglais, et y ont apposé leurs sceaux ; déclarant toutefois que la signature dans ces deux langues ne doit pas, par la suite, être citée comme exemple, ni, en aucune manière, porter préjudice aux parties contractantes.
Fait par quadruplicata, en la cité de Berlin, le vingt du mois de Mai, l'an de grâce mille huit-cent et quarante, et la soixante-quatrième de l'indépendance des Etats Unis d'Amérique.

HENRY WHEATON ,

(L. S.)

AUGUSTE DE BERGER, ( L. S. )

Aug. 26, 1840.

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL .

Ratifications
exchanged, April 23, 1841. Proclamation of the President of the U.S.,
April 24, 1841.

In the Name of the Most Holy and Undivided Trinity. THE United States of America, and Her Most Faithful Majesty the Queen of Portugal and of the Algarves, equally animated with the desire of maintaining the relations of good understanding which have hitherto so happily subsisted between their respective states ; of extend-

ing, also, and consolidating the commercial intercourse between them ;

and convinced that this object cannot better be accomplished than by adopting the system of an entire freedom of navigation, and a perfect

reciprocity based upon principles of equity equally beneficial to both

countries ; have, in consequence, agreed to enter into negotiations for

the conclusion of a treaty of commerce and navigation : and they have

appointed as their plenipotentiaries for that purpose, to wit : the Presi dent of the United States of America, Edward Kavanagh, their chargé

d'affaires at the court of Her Most Faithful Majesty ; and Her Most

Faithful Majesty, the most illustrious and most excellent John Baptist

de Almeida Garrett, first historiographer to her said Majesty, of her council, member of the Cortes, knight of the ancient and most noble

order of the tower and sword, knight commander of the order of Christ,

officer of the order of Leopold in Belgium, judge of the superior court

of commerce, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Her

Catholic Majesty ; who, after having exchanged their respective full

powers, found to be in due and proper form, have agreed upon, and concluded, the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal liberty of com-
merce and nav igation.
Liberty of residence, & c. secured.

There shall be, between the territories of the high contracting parties, a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation . The citizens and subjects of their respective States shall, mutually, have liberty to enter the ports, places and rivers of the territories of each party, wherever foreign commerce is, or shall be, permitted. They shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts of said territories, in order to attend to their affairs ; and they shall enjoy, to that effect, the same security and protection as natives of the country wherein they reside, on condition of their submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing, and particularly to the regulations in force concerning commerce.

ARTICLE II.

Vessels of either party, arriving in the ports of the other, put on the footing of
national vessels.

Vessels of the United States of America arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the ports of the kingdom and possessions of Portugal ; and, reciprocally, Portuguese vessels arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the ports of the United States of America, shall be treated , on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same footing as national vessels , coming from the same place, with respect to the

duties of tonnage, light-house duties, pilotage, port charges, as well to

the fees and perquisites of public officers, and all other duties and

charges, of whatever kind or denomination , levied upon vessels of commerce, in the name or to the profit of the Government, the local author-

ities, or of any public , or private establishment , whatsoever.

ARTICLE III.
No higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation, into the kingdom and possessions of Portugal, of any article, the growth,
(560)

TRACTADO COM PORTUGAL .

En Nome da Santissima e Indivisel Trindade. Os Estados Unidos da America, e sua Magestade Fidelissima, a Raynha de Portugal e dos Algarves, igualmente animados do desejo de manter as relações de boa intelligencia, que até aqui tem felizmente subsistido entre seus respectivos Estados ; e de estender outro sim, e consolidar as relações commerciaes entre elles ; e convencidos de que este objecto se não póde melhor conseguir do que pela adopção de um systema de inteira liberdade de navegação e perfeita reciprocidade fundada nos principios de equidade igualmente beneficos para ambos os payes ; assentarão, em consequencia, de entrar em negociações para a conclusão de um tractado de commercio e navegação ; para cujo fim nomearão para seus plenipotenciarios, a saber : o Presidente dos Estados Unidos da America, ao Senhor Edward Kavanagh, encarregado de negocios dos mesmos Estados n'esta côrte ; e sua Magestade a Raynha de Portugal, ao illustrissimo e excellentissimo João Baptista de Almeida Garrett, seu chronista mór, e do seu concelho, deputado da nação Portugueza, cavalleiro da antiga e muito nobre ordem da torre e espada do valor, lealdade, e merito, commendador da ordem de Christo, official da de Leopoldo na Belgica, juiz do tribunal superior de commercio, enviado extraordinario e ministro plenipotenciario juncto a sua Magestade Catholica ; os quaes, depois de terem communicado, um ao outro, os seus respectivos plenos poderes, que se acharam em boa e devida forma, ajustaram e concluiram os artigos seguintes :

ARTIGO I.

Haverá, entre os territorios das altas partes contractantes, reciproca liberdade de commercio de navegação. Os cidadã os e subditos dos seus respectivos estados poderão, mutua e livremente, entrar nos portos, logares, e rios dos territorios de cada uma das dittas partes contractantes, aonde quer que o commercio estrangeiro é, ou vier a ser , permittido. Terão igualmente liberdade de pousar e residir em qualquer parte dos dittos territorios, afim de tractar de seus negocios ; e gozarão, para
esse fim, a mesma segurança e protecção que os naturaes do paiz onde residem, sob condição de se sujeitarem ás leis e ordens do governo que ahi regerem, especialmente aos regulamentos commerciaes em vigor.

ARTIGO II.
Os navios dos Estados Unidos da America que aportarem, carregados ou em lastro, aos portos do reino e possessões de Portugal ; e, reciprocamente, os navios Portuguezes , que aportarem , carregados ou em lastro, nos portos dos Estados Unidos da America, serão tractados, á entrada, durante a sua estada no porto, e á sahida d'elle, do mesmo modo que os navios nacionaes vindos de iguaes procedencias, em relação aos direitos de tonelagem , de faróes, pilotagem, e ancoradouro, e bem assim quanto aos emolumentos e propinas das auctoridades publicas, ou quaesquer outros encargos e direitos, de qualquer natureza ou denominação que sejão, e que costumam levar-se aos navios de commercio, ou seja por conta do Governo, das auctoridades locaes, ou de qualquer outro estabelecimento publico ou particular.

ARTIGO III.

Não se imporão outros nem maiores direitos, na importação, em o

reino de Portugal e suas possessões, de nenhum genero de producto

VOL VIII. 71

(561)

562

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

No other or
bhiegihmerpodsuetidesonto importations, & c.

produce or manufacture of the United States of America ; and no higher or other duties shall be imposed on the importation , into the United States of America , of any article, the growth, produce or manufacture of the kingdom and possessions of Portugal, than such as are,

All prohibitions to be general.
No other or higher duties to be imposed on exportations, & c.
Proviso.

or shall be, payable on the like article, being the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other foreign country.
Nor shall any prohibition be imposed on the importation or exportation of any article, the growth, produce or manufacture of the United States of America, or of the kingdom and possessions of Portugal, to or from , the ports of the said kingdom and possessions of Portugal, or of the said States, which shall not equally extend to all other foreign nations.
Nor shall any higher or other duties or charges be imposed, in either of the two countries, on the exportation of any articles to the United
States of America, or to the kingdom of Portugal , respectively, than such as are payable on the exportation of the like articles to any other foreign country.
Provided, however, that nothing contained in this article shall be un derstood, or intended, to interfere with the stipulation entered into by the United States of America, for a special equivalent, in regard to French wines, in the convention made by the said States and France, on the fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one ; which stipulation will expire, and cease to have effect, in the month of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-two.

ARTICLE IV.

Same duties on The same duties shall be paid, and the same bounties, deductions, or

importations, & c. in vessels

privileges allowed, on the importation , into the kingdom and possessions

of either party. of Portugal, of any article, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the

United States of America, whether such importation shall be in vessels

of the said States, or in Portuguese vessels ; and, reciprocally, the same

duties shall be paid, and the same bounties, deductions, or privileges

allowed, on the importation , into the United States of America , of any

article, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the kingdom and possessions of Portugal, whether such importation shall be in Portuguese vessels, or in vessels of the said States.

ARTICLE V.

Favors granted It is agreed by the high contracting parties, that, whenever there may

by either party be lawfully imported into all or any of the ports of the kingdom and

ttoo botehceormneatcioonms., possessions of Portugal, in vessels of any foreign country, articles of

mon.

the growth, produce, or manufacture of a country other than that to

which the importing vessels shall belong, the same privilege shall imme-

diately become common to vessels of the United States of America,

with all the same rights and favors as may, in that respect, be granted

to the most favored nation. And , reciprocally, in consideration there-

of, Portuguese vessels shall, thereafter, enjoy, in the same respect, pri-

vileges, rights, and favors, to a correspondent extent, in the ports of the United States of America.

ARTICLE VI.

No higher or All kinds of merchandise and articles of commerce, which may be

other duties on lawfully exported or re-exported from the ports of either of the high exportations , & c. than are contracting parties to any foreign country, in national vessels , may also

paid by national be exported or re-exported therefrom in vessels of the other party, re-

vessels.

spectively, without paying other or higher duties or charges, of whatever

kind or denomination, than if the same merchandise or articles of com-

merce were exported or re-exported in national vessels.

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

563

natural ou de manufactura dos Estados Unidos da America ; nem outros ou maiores direitos serão impostos na importação, em os Estados Unidos da America, de genero algum de producção natural ou de manufactura do reino de Portugal e suas possessões, alem daquelles que pagão, ou vierem a pagar, iguaes generos de producção natural ou de manufactura de qualquer outro paiz estrangeiro.
Nem se estabelecerá prohibição alguma na importação ou exportação de qualquer genero de producção natural ou manufactura dos Estados Unidos da America, ou do reino de Portugal e suas possessões, respectivamente, em algum d'elles, que do mesmo modo se não estabeleça igualmente para todas as outras nações estrangeiras.
Nem se estabelecerão outros ou maiores direitos ou encargos, em qualquer dos dous paizes, sobre a exportação de quaesquer generos para os Estados Unidos da America, ou para o reino de Portugal, respectivamente, alem dos que se pagão pela exportação de iguaes generos para outro paiz estrangeiro.
Intendendose, todavia, que nada do que neste artigo se contem poderá prejudicar a estipulação admittida pelos Estados Unidos da America, por um equivalente especial, a respeito dos vinhos Francezes, na convenção, celebrada entre os dittos Estados e a França, em quatro de Julho do anno do nascimento de nosso Senhor Jesu Christo de mil oitocentos e
trinta e um ; a qual estipulação hade terminar e deixar de ter effeito, no mez de Fevereiro, do anno do nascimento de nosso Senhor Jesu Christo de mil oitocentos e quarenta e dous.
ARTIGO IV.
Pagar-se-hao os mesmos direitos, e serão concedidos os mesmos favores, deducções, ou privilegios pela importação, em o reino e possessões de Portugal, de qualquer genero de producção natural ou manufactura dos Estados Unidos da America, quer a ditta importação se faça em navios dos dittos Estados, ou em navios Portuguezes : e, reciprocamente, se pagarão os mesmos direitos , e serão concedidos os mesmos favores, deducções, e privilegios pela importação, em os Estados Unidos da America, de qualquer genero de producção natural ou manufactura de Portugal e suas possessões, quer a ditta importação seja feita em navios Portuguezes, ou em navios dos dittos Estados.
ARTIGO V.
Convierão as altas partes contractantes, que se, em algum tempo, for permittido o importar em todos ou alguns dos portos o reino e possessões de Portugal, em navios de qualquer nação estrangeira, alguns generos de producção natural ou manufactura de outro paiz que não seja aquelle á que os dittos navios pertencerem, o mesmo favor será immediatamente extensivo aos navios dos Estados Unidos da America, com os mesmos direitos e favores que, para esse fim, forem concedidos á nação, mais favorecida. Em consideração, do que, e reciprocamente, os navios Portuguezes gozarão, d'ahi em diante, e para o mesmo fim, privilegios, direitos, e favores, na mesma extenção correspondente, nos portos dos Estados Unidos da America.
ARTIGO VI.
Toda a sorte de mercadorias e artigos de commercio que legalmente podem ser exportados ou re-exportados dos portos de uma das altas partes contractantes, para qualquer paiz estrangeiro, em navios nacionaes, poderão igualmente ser exportados ou re-exportados dos dittos portos em os navios da outra parte, respectivamente, sem pagar outros ou maiores direitos ou encargos, de qualquer modo ou denominação que sejam, do que se as dittas mercadorias ou artigos de commercio fossem exportados ou re-exportados em navios nacionaes.

564

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

Bounties, & c. the same, in vessels of either
party.

And the same bounties and drawbacks shall be allowed, whether
such exportation or re-exportation be made in vessels of the one party or the other.
ARTICLE VII .

Coasting trade It is expressly understood that nothing contained in this treaty shall

excepted.

be applicable to the coastwise navigation of either of the two countries,

which each of the high contracting parties reserves exclusively to itself.

ARTICLE VIII.

Foregoing sti
pulations not applicable to certain ports.

It is mutually understood that the foregoing stipulations do not apply to ports and territories, in the kingdom and possessions of Portugal, where foreign commerce and navigation are not admitted ; and that the commerce and navigation of Portugal, directly to and from the United

States of America and the said ports and territories, are also pro-

hibited.

Said ports, & c. But Her Most Faithful Majesty agrees that, as soon as the said ports

when opened to and territories, or any of them, shall be opened to the commerce or

any foreign nation, to be open

navigation of any foreign nation, they shall, from that moment, be also

to U.S.

opened to the commerce and navigation of the United States of Ame-

rica, with the same privileges, rights and favors as may be allowed to the most favored nation, gratuitously, if the concession was gratuitously

made, or on allowing the same compensation , or an equivalent, if the concession was conditional.

ARTICLE IX.

Protection to
vessels seeking efuge, & c.

Whenever the citizens or subjects of either of the contracting parties shall be forced to seek refuge or asylum in any of the rivers, bays, ports, or territories of the other, with their vessels, whether merchant, or of war, through stress of weather, pursuit of pirates or enemies, they shall be received and treated with humanity, giving to them all favor, facility and protection for repairing their ships, procuring provisions and placing themselves in a situation to continue their voyage, without obstacle or hindrance of any kind.
ARTICLE X.

Each party to have consuls, & c. in each other's ports

The two contracting parties shall have the liberty of having, each in the ports of the other, consuls, vice-consuls, agents, and commissaries of their own appointment, who shall enjoy the same privileges and powers as those of the most favored nation. But, before any consul,

vice-consul, agent, or commissary shall act as such, he shall, in the

Of consuls engaging in commerce .
In case of conauls violating the laws.
Consular ar-

usual form, be approved and admitted by the Government to which he is sent.
But, if any such consuls shall exercise commerce , they shall be submitted to the same laws and usages to which the private individuals of their nation are submitted, in the same place, in respect of their commercial transactions.
And, it is hereby declared that, in case of offense against the laws, such consul, vice-consul, agent or commissary may either be punished according to law, or be sent back, the offended Government assigning, to the other, reasons for the same.
The archives and papers of the consulates shall be respected inviola-

vcihoilvaebsleto be in- bly ; and , under no pretext whatever shall any magistrate seize, or in . any way interfere with them.

Disputes between Amerieans, & c. to be decided by the consul, & c.
1846, ch. 105.

The consuls, vice-consuls, and commercial agents, shall have the right, as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators, in such differences as may arise between the captains and crews of the vessels belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

565

E conceder-ce-hão, os mesmos favores e deducções de direitos, quer a exportação ou a re-exportação seja feita em navios de uma ou da outra das dittas partes.
ARTIGO VII. Fica expressamente intendido que nenhuma das estipulações conthendas no presente tractado será applicavel á navegação costeira, ou de cabotagem, de qualquer dos dous paizes, que cada uma das altas partes contractantes exclusivamente se reserva.
ARTIGO VIII.
Fica mutuamente entendido que as precedentes estipulações não são applicaveis aos portos e territorios no reino e possessões de Portugal, em que não são admittidos o commercio e navegação estrangeiros ; e que o commercio e navegação de Portugal, directamente dos dittos portos para os Estados Unidos da America, e dos dittos Estados para os dittos portos e territorios, são igualmente prohibidos.
Mas sua Magestade Fidelissima consente em que, quando, em algum tempo, os dittos portos e territorios, ou algum d'elles, vierem a ser abertos ao commercio ou navegação de qualquer nação estrangeira, desde esse momento figuem abertos ao commercio e navegação dos Estados Unidos da America, com os mesmos privilegios, direitos, e favores, que forem concedidos á nação mais favorecida ; gratuitamente, se a concessão tiver sido gratuita, ou pela mesma compensação, ou um equivalente d'ella, se a concessão tiver sido condicional.
ARTIGO IX .
Os cidadãos e subditos de qualquer das partes contractantes que forem obrigados a procurar refugio ou asilo em algum dos rios, bahias, portos, ou territorios da outra, com seus navios, ou sejão mercantes ou de guerra, por causa do temporal, perseguição de piratas, ou inimigos, serão recebidos e tractados com humanidade, dando-se-lhes todo o favor, facilidade, e protecção para reparar os seus navios, procurar mantimentos, e por-se em estado de continuar a sua viagem, sem nenhum obstaculo ou molestação.
ARTIGO X.
As duas partes contractantes terão a liberdade de nomear para os portos, uma da outra, consules, vice-consules, agentes e commissarios os quaes gozarão dos mesmos privilegios e poderes que os da nação mais favorecida. Mas, antes que qualquer consul , vice-consul, agente, ou commissario possa funccionar como tal, será, na devida e usual forma, approvado e admittido pelo Governo do paiz a que é mandado.
Mas, se algum d'estes consules exercitar o commercio, ficará sujeito ás mesmas leis e usos a que são sujeitos os individuos particulares de sua nação, nos mesmos logares, relativamente ás suas transacções commerciaes.
E aqui fica declarado, que no caso de offensa contra as leis, o ditto consul, vice-consul, agente, ou commissario poderá ser, ou punido conforme o direito, ou mandado, sahir, declarando o Govêrno offendido, ao outro, as rasões do seu procedimento.
Os archivos e papeis des consulados serão respeitados inviolavelmente ; e por nenhum pretexto poderá qualquer magistrado embarga-los, ou, de outro modo, intervir a respeito d'elles.
Os consules, vice-consules, e agentes commerciaes terão o direito, como taes, de exercer as funccões de juizes e arbitros, nas questões que venhão a levantar se entre os mestres e companhas dos navios da nação cujos interesses lhe são commettidos, sem intervenção das auctoridades locaes, excepto se o procedimento das dittas companhas e mestres per-
2X

566

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

of the captains, should disturb the order or the tranquillity, or offend the laws, of the country ; or the said consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents should require their assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into effect, or supported.

Contending

It is, however, understood that this species of judgment, or arbitra-

parties may re- tion, shall not deprive the contending parties of the right they have to

saourtthotroitjiuedsi,ci&alc. resort, on their return, to the judicial authorities of their country.

ARTICLE XI.

Consuls, & c. may require the aid of the
civil authorities to arrest desert. ers .
How the demand shall be made.

The said consuls , vice-consuls and commercial agents are authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities, for the search, arrest, detention and imprisonment of the deserters from the ships of war and merchant vessels of their country.
For this purpose, they shall apply to the competent tribunals, judges, and officers, and shall, in writing, demand the said deserters, proving by the exhibition of the registers of the vessels, the rolls of the crews,

or by any other official documents, that such individuals formed part of

the crews ; and, this reclamation being thus substantiated , the surrender shall be made, without delay.

Deserters,

Such deserters, when arrested , shall be placed at the disposal of the

when arrested, now to be disposed of.

said consuls , vice-consuls, or commercial agents, and may be confined in the public prisons, at the request and cost of those who shall claim them, in order to be detained until the time when they shall be restored

to the vessels to which they belonged, or sent back to their own coun-

try, by a vessel of the same nation , or any other vessel whatsoever. But,

if not sent back within four months from the day of their arrest, they

shall be set at liberty, and shall not be again arrested for the same cause.

However, if the deserter shall be found to have committed any crime or

offense, the surrender may be delayed until the tribunal , before which

his case shall be pending, shall have pronounced its sentence, and such sentence shall have been carried into effect.

ARTICLE XII.

Powerto dis-
pose ofpersonal goods, & c.

In case of real estate, time al-

lsoawmeed,

to &

sell c.

the

The citizens and subjects of each of the high contracting parties shall have power to dispose of their personal goods, within the jurisdiction of the other, by testament, donation , or otherwise ; and their representatives shall succeed to their said personal goods, whether by testament or ab intestato, and may take possession thereof, either by themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose of the same, at will, paying to the profit of the respective Governments such dues only as the inhabitants of the country, wherein the said goods are, shall be subject to pay in like cases.
And where, on the death of any person holding real estate , within the territories of one of the high contracting parties, such real estate would, by the laws of the land , descend on a citizen or subject of the
other party, who, by reason of alienage, may be incapable of holding it, he shall be allowed the time fixed by the laws of the country ; and, in case the laws of the country actually in force may not have fixed any such time, he then shall be allowed a reasonable time to sell, or otherwise dispose of, such real estate, and to withdraw and export the proceeds without molestation , and without paying to the profit of the respective Governments any other dues than those to which the inhabitants of the country, wherein said real estate is situated, shall be subject to pay in like cases.

ARTICLE XIII .

Favors in navi- If either party shall , hereafter, grant to any other nation any particu-

gation, & c. to become com.

lar favor in navigation or commerce, it shall immediately become com

mon.

mon to the other party , freely, where it is freely granted to such other

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL . 1840.

567

turbar a ordem ou a tranquillidade, ou offender as leis, do paiz ; ou tambem se os dittos consules, vice-consules, ou agentes commerciaes requererem o seu auxilio para haver de levar á effeito as suas decisões.

É, com tudo, entendido que esta especie de julgamento, ou arbitragem, de nenhum modo privará os litigantes do direito que teem a recorrer depois ás auctoridades judiciaes do seu paiz.
ARTIGO XI.
Os dittos consules, vice-consules, e agentes commerciaes são auctorisados a requerer o auxilio das auctoridades locaes, para a busca, prisão, detenção, e custodia dos desertores dos navios de guerra e mercantes da sua nação.
Para este fim , poderão dirigir se aos competentes tribunaes, juizes, e officiaes publicos, e pedirão, por escripto, os ditos desertores, provando pela exhibição dos registos dos navios, matricula dos marinheiros , ou poz qualquer outro documento official, que taes individuos pertencião á tripulação d'elles ; e documentada assim a reclamação, será feita a entrega sem demora.
Ös desertores apenas prezos serão postos áà disposição dos dittos consules, vice-consules, ou agentes commerciaes, e poderão ser detidos nas cadeas publicas, a rógo e á custa dos que os reclamarem, para haverem de ser detidos, atè se restituirem aos navios a que pertencião, ou mandados para o seu paiz , por um navio da mesma nação, ou por qualquer outro. Se porem não forem mandados para o seu paiz dentro de quatro mezes contados do dia da prisão serão postos em liberdade, e não tornarão a ser presos pela mesma causa . Mas, se vier a conhecer-se que o dezertor commetten algum crime ou offensa contra as leis do paiz , será demorada a entrega d'elle atè que o tribunal, a que o caso estiver affecto pronuncie sentença, e a sentença se execute.

ARTIGO XII.
Os cidadãos e subditos de cada uma das altas partes contractantes poderam dispôr dos seus bens moveis que se acharem dentro da jurisdicção da outra, por testamento, doação , ou por qualquer outro modo ; e os seus representantes poderam succeder nos ditos bens particulares, por testamento, ou ab intestato, e poderam tomar posse d'elles por si ou por seus procuradores, e dispor livremente dos mesmos, pagando sómente aus respectivos Governos o que os habitantes do paiz, em que os dittos bens estiverem, forem obrigados a pagar em iguaes casos.
E se, por morte de alguma pessoa que possua, bens de raiz dentro do territorio de uma das altas partes contractantes, esses bens de raiz tiverem de passar, conforme as leis do paiz, a um cidadão ou subdito da outra parte, e a ditta pessoa as não poder possuir por sua qualidade de estrangeiro, sêr-lhe-ha dado o tempo marcado pelas leis do paiz ; ou se estas o não tiverem marcado sêr-lhe-ha dado o tempo rasoave. para vender, ou de qualquer outro modo dispôr dos dittos bens de raïz, e retirar ou exportar o seu producto sem gravame e sem ter de pagar para os respectivos Governos outro algum direito alem dos que, em iguaes casos são impostos aos habitantes do païz aonde os dittos bens de raïz forem situados.

ARTIGO XIII.
Se uma das partes contractantes vier a conceder a qualquer outra nação qualquer favor particular em navegação ou em commercio, o ditto favor será immediatamente extensivo á outra parte ; livremente se livre-

568

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL. 1840.

nation, or on yielding the same compensation, or an equivalent, quam proxime, where the grant is conditional.

ARTICLE XIV.

The following The United States of America and her Most Faithful Majesty, desir-

points agreed to.

ing to make as durable as circumstances will permit, the relations which are to be established between the two parties, by virtue of this treaty

Duration of the treaty.

or general convention of reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation , have declared solemnly, and do agree to the following points :
1st. The present treaty shall be in force for six years from the date hereof, and further until the end of one year after either of the contracting parties shall have given notice to the other, of its intention to terminate the same : each of the contracting parties reserving to itself

the right of giving such notice to the other, at any time after the expiration of the said term of six years ; and it is hereby agreed between them that, on the expiration of one year after such notice shall have been received by either from the other party, this treaty shall altogether cease and terminate.

Citizens per-
sonally respon sible for violations of this treaty.

2d. If any one or more of the citizens or subjects of either party shall infringe any of the articles of this treaty, such citizen or subject shall be held personally responsible for the same ; and the harmony and good correspondence between the two nations shall not be interrupted thereby; each party engaging in no way to protect the offender, or sanction such violation.

Reprisals not to be author-
ized, nor war declared, until, & c.

3d. If, (which, indeed , cannot be expected , ) unfortunately, any of the articles contained in the present treaty shall be violated or infringed, in any way whatever, it is expressly stipulated, that neither of the contract-
ing parties will order or authorise any acts of reprisal , nor declare war against the other, on complaints of injuries or damages, until the said

party, considering itself offended, shall first have presented to the other

a statement of such injuries or damages, verified by competent proof, and demanded justice and satisfaction, and the same shall have been either refused or unreasonably delayed.

Ratifications to
De exchanged within eight months.

4th. The present treaty shall be approved and ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the said States, and by Her Most Faithful Majesty, with the previous consent of the General Cortes of the nation, and the ratifications shall be exchanged, in the City of Washington, within eight months from the date hereof, or sooner, if possible.

In witness whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seals of their arms.

Done in triplicate, in the city of Lisbon, the twenty-sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty.

EDWARD KAVANAGH, (L. s.)

TREATY WITH PORTUGAL . 1840.

569

mente for concedido, ou pela mesma compensação, ou por outra equivalente, quam proximè, se a concessão for condicional.
ARTIGO XIV.
Os Estados Unidos da America e su a Magestade Fidelissima, desejando fazer tam duraveis quanto as circumstancias o permittão, as relações que vão estabelecer-se entre as duas partes, em virtude deste tractado ou geral convenção de reciproca liberdade de commercio e navegação, declarão solemnemente e consentem nos seguintes pontos :
1º. Ó presente tractado durara e estará em plena força e vigor por espaço de seis annos contados da data d'este, e por um anno mais depois que uma das partes contractantes tiver intimado á outra a sua intenção de terminar o mesmo ; reservando se cada uma das partes contractantes o direito de fazer essa intimação em qualquer tempo depois de ter expirado o referido termo de seis annos : e do mesmo modo fica ajustado entre ellas, que, um anno depois de ser recebida por uma d'ellas, da outra parte, a ditta intimação, esse tractado cessará e terminará inteiramente.
2º. Se um ou mais cidadãos ou subditos de uma das partes contractantes infringir qualquer dos artigos d'este tractado, será o mesmo cidadão ou subdito pessoalmente responsavel por aquella infracção ; e a boa harmonia e correspondencia entre as duas naçoes não será por isso interrompido ; obrigando- se cada uma das dittas partes a não proteger de nenhum modo o offensor , e a não sanccionar tal violação.
3°. Se, (o que não é de esperar, ) infelizmente algum ou algums dos artigos, no presente tractado conthendos, vier a ser por qualquer modo violado ou infringido, expressamente se estipula que nenhuma das partes contractantes poderá ordenar ou auctorizar nenhum acto de represaha, nem declarar guerra á outra, por agravos de injurias ou damnos , até que a ditta parte, que offendida se considera, tenha primeiro appresentado á outra uma exposição das dittas injurias ou damnos provados por competentes documentos, e pedido justiça e satisfacção, que ou lhe tinha sido recusada, ou desarresoadamente demorada.
4°. O presente tractado será approvado e ratificado pelo Presidente dos Estados Unidos da America, por e com annuencia e consentimento do Senado dos dittos Estados, e por sua Magestade Fidelissima, com previo consentimento das Cortes Geraes da nação, e as ratificações serão trocadas na cidade de Washington , no prazo de outo meses contados da data da assignatura, ou antes se possivel fôr.
Em testemunho do que, os respectivos plenipotenciarios o assignaram, e lhe appozerão o sêllo de suas armas.

Feito em triplicado, na cidade de Lisboa, aos vinte-e-seis dias de
Agosto do anno do nascimento de nosso Senhor Jesu Christo de mil outocentos e quarenta.

JOAO BAPTISTA DE ALMEIDA GARRETT, ( L. 8.)

VOL. VIII. 72

2x2

March 17, 1841.

CONVENTION WITH PERU.

Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., Feb. 21 , 1844.
Commissioners appointed.

The United States of America and the Republic of Peru, desirous of consolidating permanently, the good understanding and friendship now happily existing between the parties, have resolved to arrange and terminate their differences and pretensions, by means of a Convention that shall determine exactly, the responsibilities of Peru , with respect to the claims of certain citizens of the United States against her : And with
this intention, the President of the United States has appointed James C. Pickett, Chargé d'Affaires of said States, near Peru, and his excellency the President of the Republic of Peru, has appointed Don Manuel del Rio, principal officer of the Department of Finance, acting minister of the same Department and supernumerary Councillor of State ; and both Commissioners, after having exchanged their powers, have agreed upon and signed the following articles :

ARTICLE 1.

Peru to pay

The Peruvian Government, in order to make full satisfaction for

11. S. $300,000. various claims of citizens of the United States, on account of seizures,

captures, detentions, sequestrations and confiscations of their vessels, or for the damage and destruction of them, of their cargoes, or other

property, at sea, and in the ports and territories of Peru, by order of said Government of Peru , or under its authority, has stipulated, to pay

to the United States, the sum of three hundred thousand dollars, which

shall be distributed among the claimants, in the manner and according to the rules that shall be prescribed by the Government of the United States.

ARTICLE II.

To be paid in ten annual in-
stalments.

The sum of three hundred thousand dollars, which the Government of Peru has agreed to pay, in the preceding article, shall be paid at Lima, in ten equal annual instalments of thirty thousand dollars each, to the person or persons that may be appointed by the United States, to receive it. The first instalment shall be paid on the first day of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-four, and an instalment on the first day of each succeeding January, until the whole sum of three hundred thousand dollars shall be paid .

ARTICLE III.

Interest at the
rate of four per centum .

The Peruvian Government agrees also, to pay interest on the before mentioned sum of three hundred thousand dollars, at the rate of four per centum per annum, to be computed from the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and forty-two, and the interest accruing on each instalment, shall be paid with the instalment. That is to say ; in terest shall be paid on each annual instalment, from the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and forty-two.

ARTICLE IV.

To be paid in hard dollars.

All the annual payments made on account of the three hundred thousand dollars, shall be paid in hard dollars of the same standard and
(570)

CONVENTION WITH PERU. 1841 .

571

value as those now coined at the mint in Lima, and the annual payments, as well as the accruing interest, may be exported from Peru , free of all duty whatever.
ARTICLE V.
There shall not be demanded of the Government of Peru, any other No farther payment or indemnification, on account of any claim of the citizens of dcelamiamnsdprfeosrent. the United States, that was presented to it by Samuel Larned esquire, ed by S.Larned. when Chargé d'Affaires of the United States, near Peru. But the claims subsequent to those presented by Mr. Larned to the Government of Peru, shall be examined and acted upon hereafter.

ARTICLE VI.
It is further agreed, that the Peruvian Government shall have the Optional with option of paying each annual instalment, when it is due, with orders on Poredreurtsoopnaycuwsi-th the custom-house at Callao, which shall be endorsable in sums of any tom-house at amount, and receivable in the Treasury, as cash, in payment of duties Callao. on importations of all kinds ; and the orders shall be given in such a manner as, that in case similar orders shall be at a discount in the market, the full value of each annual payment shall be secured and made good to the United States, as though it had been paid in cash, at the time of its falling due ; and any loss occasioned by discount, or delay in the collection , shall be borne and made good by the Peruvian Government.
ARTICLE VII.
This Convention shall be ratified by the contracting parties, and the To be ratified ratifications shall be exchanged within two years from its date, or sooner, in two years. ifpossible, after having been approved by the President and Senate ofthe United States, and by the Congress of Peru.

In witness whereof, the respective Commissioners have signed the same, and affixed thereto their seals. Done in triplicate at the city of Lima, this seventeenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-one.

J. C. PICKETT,

(L. s.)

MANUEL DEL RIO, (L. s.)

A TREATY

Aug. 9, 1842.
Ratified Aug. 22 1842.

To settle and define the boundaries between the territories of the United States and the possessions of Her Britannic Majesty in North America ; forthefinal suppression of the African slave trade ; and for the giving up ofcriminals, fugitive from justice, in certain cases.

Preamble. Ante. p. 81.

WHEREAS Certain portions of the line of boundary between the United States of America and the British dominions in North America, described in the second article of the treaty of peace of 1783, have not

yet been ascertained and determined, notwithstanding the repeated at-

tempts which have been heretofore made for that purpose : and whereas

it is now thought to be for the interest of both parties, that, avoiding further discussion of their respective rights, arising in this respect under

the said treaty, they should agree on a conventional line in said portions

of the said boundary, such as may be convenient to both parties, with such equivalents and compensations as are deemed just and reasonable

and whereas, by the treaty concluded at Ghent on the 24th day of De-

cember, 1814, between the United States and His Britannic Majesty,

an article was agreed to and inserted of the following tenor, viz : "Art.

2A2n3t. e. pp. 218, 10. Whereas the traffic in slaves is irreconcilable with the principles of humanity and justice : and whereas both His Majesty and the United

States are desirous of continuing their efforts to promote its entire abo-

lition, it is hereby agreed that both the contracting parties shall use

their best endeavors to accomplish so desirable an object :" and whereas, notwithstanding the laws which have at various times been passed

by the two Governments, and the efforts made to suppress it, that crimi-

nal traffic is still prosecuted and carried on : and whereas the United

States of America and Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom

of Great Britain and Ireland are determined that , so far as may be in their power, it shall be effectually abolished : and whereas it is found

expedient, for the better administration of justice and the prevention of crime within the territories and jurisdiction of the two parties, respec-

tively, that persons committing the crimes hereinafter enumerated, and

being fugitives from justice, should, under certain circumstances, be

reciprocally delivered up. The United States of America and Her

Britannic Majesty, having resolved to treat on these several subjects,

have for that purpose appointed their respective plenipotentiaries to negotiate and conclude a treaty, that is to say, the President of the United

States has, on his part, furnished with full powers Daniel Webster, Se-

cretary of State of the United States, and Her Majesty the Queen of

the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland has, on her part, ap-

pointed the Right Honorable Alexander Lord Ashburton, a peer of the

said United Kingdom, a member of Her Majesty's most honorable Privy

Council, and Her Majesty's Minister Plenipotentiary on a special mission to the United States, who , after a reciprocal communication of their respective full powers, have agreed to and signed the following articles :

(572)

'TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1842.

573

ARTICLE I.

It is hereby agreed and declared that the line of boundary shall be as follows : Beginning at the monument at the source of the river St. Croix as designated and agreed to by the commissioners under the fifth article of the treaty of 1794 , between the Governments of the United States and Great Britain ; thence, north, following the exploring line run and marked by the surveyors of the two Governments in the years 1817 and 1818, under the fifth article of the treaty of Ghent, to its intersection with the river St. John , and to the middle of the channel

Boundary line between U. S.
and the British possessions . Ante. p. 119.

thereof; thence, up the middle of the main channel of the said river St. John, to the mouth of the river St. Francis ; thence, up the middle of the channel of the said river St. Francis, and of the lakes through which it flows, to the outlet of the Lake Pohenagamook ; thence, southwesterly, in a straight line, to a point on the northwest branch of the

river St. John, which point shall be ten niles distant from the main branch of the St. John , in a straight line, and in the nearest direction -but if the said point shall be found to be less than seven miles from the nearest point of the summit or crest of the highlands that divide those rivers which empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from

those which fall into the river St. John , then the said point shall be made to recede down the said northwest branch of the river St. John,

to a point seven miles in a straight line from the said summit or crest ; thence, in a straight line, in a course about south, eight degrees west,

to the point where the parallel of latitude of 46° 25 north intersects the southwest branch of the St. John's ; thence, southerly, by the said

branch, to the source thereof in the highlands at the Metjarmette portage ; thence, down along the said highlands which divide the waters which empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from those which fall into the Atlantic ocean, to the head of Hall's stream ; thence, down the middle of said stream, till the line thus run intersects the old line

of boundary surveyed and marked by Valentine and Collins, previously to the year 1774, as the 45th degree of north latitude, and which has been known and understood to be the line of actual division between

the States of New York and Vermont on one side, and the British pro-

vince of Canada on the other ; and, from said point of intersection, west, along the said dividing line, as heretofore known and understood, to the Iroquois or St. Lawrence river.

ARTICLE II.
It is moreover agreed, that, from the place where the joint commis- Description of sioners terminated their labors under the sixth article of the treaty of the boundary Ghent, to wit : at a point in the Neebish channel, near Muddy Lake, the line. line shall run into and along the ship channel between St. Joseph and Ante. p. 221 . St. Tammany islands, to the division of the channel at or near the head of St. Joseph's island ; thence, turning eastwardly and northwardly around the lower end of St. George's or Sugar island , and following the middle of the channel which divides St. George's from St. Joseph's island ; thence up the east Neebish channel, nearest to St. George's island, through the middle of Lake George ; thence , west of Jonas' island , into St. Mary's river, to a point in the middle of that river, about one mile above St. George's or Sugar island, so as to appropriate and assign the said island to the United States ; thence, adopting the line traced on the maps by the commissioners, through the river St Mary and Lake Superior , to a point north of Ile Royale, in said lake , one hundred yards to the north and east of Ile Chapeau, which lastmentioned island lies near the northeastern point of Ile Royale, where the line marked by the commissioners terminates ; and from the lastmentioned point, southwesterly, through the middle of the sound between

574

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1842.

Ile Royale and the northwestern main land, to the mouth of Pigeon river, and up the said river , to and through the north and south Fowl Lakes, to the lakes of the height of land between Lake Superior and the Lake of the Woods ; thence, along the water communication to Lake Saisaginaga, and through that lake ; thence, to and through Cypress Lake, Lac du Bois Blanc, Lac la Croix, Little Vermilion Lake and Lake Namecan , and through the several smaller lakes , straits, or streams, connecting the lakes here mentioned, to that point in Lac la Pluie, or Rainy Lake, at the Chaudière Falls, from which the commissioners traced the line to the most northwestern point of the Lake of the Woods ; thence , along the said line, to the said most northwestern point, being in latitude 49° 23 55 north, and in longitude 95' 14 38" west from the observatory at Greenwich ; thence, according to existing treaties, due south to its intersection with the 49th parallel of north latitude, and along that parallel to the Rocky mountains. It being understood that all the water communications and all the usual portages along the line from Lake Superior to the Lake of the Woods, and also Grand portage, from the shore of Lake Superior to the Pigeon river, as now actually used, shall be free and open to the use of the citizens and subjects of both countries.

ARTICLE III.

Navigation of the river St. John to be free to both parties.
Proviso.

In order to promote the interests and encourage the industry of all the inhabitants of the countries watered by the river St. John and its tributaries, whether living within the State of Maine or the province of New Brunswick, it is agreed that, where, by the provisions of the present treaty, the river St. John is declared to be the line of boundary, the navigation of the said river shall be free and open to both parties, and shall in no way be obstructed by either ; that all the produce of the forest, in logs, lumber, timber, boards, staves, or shingles, or of agriculture, not being manufactured, grown on any of those parts of the State of Maine watered by the river St. John , or by its tributaries, of which fact reasonable evidence shall, if required , be produced , shall have free access into and through the said river and its said tributaries, having their source within the State of Maine, to and from the seaport at the mouth of the said river St. John's , and to and round the falls of the said river, either by boats, rafts, or other conveyance ; that when within the province of New Brunswick, the said produce shall be dealt with as if it were the produce of the said province ; that, in like manner, the inhabitants of the territory of the upper St. John , determined by this treaty to belong to Her Britannic Majesty, shall have free access to and through the river, for their produce, in those parts where the said river runs wholly through the State of Maine : Provided, always, That this agreement shall give no right to either party to interfere with any regulations not inconsistent with the terms of this treaty which the Governments, respectively, of Maine or of New Brunswick may make respecting the navigation of the said river, where both banks thereof shall belong to the same party.

ARTICLE IV.

Grants of land ,
&c. within the territory, confirmed to the
persons in pos-
session of such grants.

All grants of land heretofore made by either party, within the limits of the territory which by this treaty falls within the dominions of the other party, shall be held valid, ratified , and confirmed to the persons in possession under such grants, to the same extent as if such territory had by this treaty fallen within the dominions of the party by whom such grants were made ; and all equitable possessory claims, arising from a possession and improvement, of any lot or parcel of land, by the person actually in possession , or by those under whom such person claims, for more than six years before the date of this treaty, shall , in

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1842.

575

ke manner, be deemed valid , and be confirmed and quieted by a release to the person entitled thereto, of the title to such lot or parcel of land, so described as best to include the improvements made thereon ; and in all other respects the two contracting parties agree to deal upon the most liberal principles of equity with the settlers actually dwelling upon the territory falling to them, respectively, which has heretofore been in dispute between them.
ARTICLE V.

Whereas, in the course of the controversy respecting the disputed Distribution of

territory on the Northeastern boundary, some moneys have been re- the disputed ceived by the authorities of Her Britannic Majesty's province of New territory fund."

Brunswick, with the intention of preventing depredations on the forests of the said territory, which moneys were to be carried to a fund called

the " disputed territory fund," the proceeds whereof, it was agreed, should be hereafter paid over to the parties interested, in the propor-

tions to be determined by a final settlement of boundaries : It is hereby

agreed, that a correct account of all receipts and payments on the said fund shall be delivered to the Government of the United States, within

six months after the ratification of this treaty ; and the proportion of the amount due thereon to the States of Maine and Massachusetts, and

any bonds or securities appertaining thereto, shall be paid and delivered over to the Government of the United States ; and the Government of

the United States agrees to receive for the use of, and pay over to, the States of Maine and Massachusetts, their respective portions of said

fund ; and further to pay and satisfy said States, respectively, for all

claims for expenses incurred by them in protecting the said heretofore

disputed territory, and making a survey thereof, in 1838 ; the Govern-

ment of the United States agreeing, with the States of Maine and Massachusetts, to pay them the further sum of three hundred thousand dol-

lars, in equal moieties, on account of their assent to the line of boundary

described in this treaty, and in consideration of the conditions and equivalents received therefor, from the Government of Her Britannic

Majesty.

ARTICLE VI.

It is furthermore understood and agreed, that for the purpose of run- Commissioners

ning and tracing those parts of the line between the source of the St. to be appointed

Croix and the St. Lawrence river which will require

to

be

run and as-

to mark the line between the St.

certained, and for marking the residue of said line by proper monu- Croix and St.

ments on the land, two commissioners shall be appointed, one by the Lawrence President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of rivers.

the Senate thereof, and one by Her Britannic Majesty : and the said 1843, ch. 89. commissioners shall meet at Bangor, in the State of Maine, on the first

day of May next, or as soon thereafter as may be, and shall proceed to

mark the line above described, from the source of the St. Croix to the river St. John ; and shall trace, on proper maps, the dividing line along

said river, and along the river St. Francis, to the outlet of the Lake Po-

henagamook ; and, from the outlet ofthe said lake, they shall ascertain,

fix, and mark, by proper and durable monuments on the land , the line described in the first article of this treaty ; and the said commissioners

shall make to each of their respective Governments a joint report or

declaration, under their hands and seals, designating such line of boun-

dary, and shall accompany such report or declaration with maps, certified by them to be true maps of the new boundary.

ARTICLE VII.

It is further agreed, that the channels in the river St. Lawrence, on Certain waters both sides of the Long Sault islands, and of Barnhart island ; the chan- open to both uels in the river Detroit, on both sides of the island Bois Blanc, and parties.

576

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN . 1842.

between that island and both the American and Canadian shores ; and all the several channels and passages between the various islands lying near the junction of the river St. Clair with the lake of that name, shall be equally free and open to the ships, vessels, and boats of both parties.

ARTICLE VIII.

Mutual agreement for the
Suppression of the slave trade.

The parties mutually stipulate that each shall prepare, equip, and maintain in service, on the coast of Africa, a sufficient and adequate squadron, or naval force of vessels, of suitable numbers and descriptions, to carry in all not less than eighty guns, to enforce, separately and respectively, the laws, rights, and obligations, of each of the two countries, for the suppression of the slave trade ; the said squadrons to be independent of each other ; but the two Governments stipulating, nevertheless, to give such orders to the officers commanding their respective forces as shall enable them most effectually to act in concert and co-operation, upon mutual consultation, as exigencies may arise, for the attainment of the true object of this article ; copies of all such orders to be communicated by each Government to the other, respectively.

ARTICLE IX.

Parties to unite in remonstrances with other powers within whose dominions a
mfoarrskleatveiss.found

Whereas , notwithstanding all efforts which may be made on the coast of Africa for suppressing the slave trade, the facilities for carrying on that traffic, and avoiding the vigilance of cruisers, by the fraudulent use of flags and other means, are so great, and the temptations for pursuing it, while a market can be found for slaves, so strong, as that the desired result may be long delayed , unless all markets be shut against the purchase of African negroes ; the parties to this treaty agree that

they will unite in all becoming representations and remonstrances, with

any and all Powers within whose dominions such markets are allowed

to exist ; and that they will urge upon all such Powers the propriety

and duty of closing such markets effectually, at once and forever.

ARTICLE X.

Criminals to be delivered up to either party, upon requisition, & c.
1848, ch. 167.

It is agreed that the United States and Her Britannic Majesty shall , upon mutual requisitions by them , or their ministers, officers, or authorities, respectively made, deliver up to justice all persons who, being charged with the crime of murder, or assault with intent to commit murder, or piracy, or arson , or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of forged paper, committed within the jurisdiction of either, shall seek an

asylum, or shall be found, within the territories of the other : provided

that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, ac-

cording to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged

shall be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial,

if the crime or offence had there been committed : and the respective

judges and other magistrates of the two Governments shall have power, jurisdiction, and authority, upon complaint made under oath, to issue

a warrant for the apprehension of the fugitive or person so charged,

that he may be brought before such judges or other magistrates, respectively, to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and

considered ; and if, on such hearing, the evidence be deemed sufficient

to sustain the charge, it shall be the duty of the examining judge or magistrate to certify the same to the proper Executive authority, that a

warrant may issue for the surrender of such fugitive. The expense of

such apprehension and delivery shall be borne and defrayed by the party who makes the requisition , and receives the fugitive.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 1842.

577

ARTICLE XI.
The eighth article of this treaty shall be in force for five years from Duration of the treaty.
the date of the exchange of the ratifications, and afterwards until one or the other party shall signify a wish to terminate it. The tenth article
shall continue in force until one or the other of the parties shall signify its, wish to terminate it, and no longer.

ARTICLE XII.

The present treaty shall be duly ratified, and the mutual exchange of

Ratifications to be exchanged

ratifications shall take place in London, within six months from the date within six

hereof, or earlier if possible.

months.

In faith whereof, we, the respective Plenipotentiaries, have signed this treaty, and have hereunto affixed our seals.

Done, in duplicate, at Washington, the ninth day of August, Anno Domini one thousand eight hundred and forty-two.

DANL. WEBSTER, (L. s.)

ASHBURTON, (L. s.)

VOL. VIII. 73

2Y

CONVENTION

Jan. 30, 1843. Ratifications exchanged, March 29, 1843. Proclamation of the President of the U. S., March 30, 1843. Preamble
Ante. p. 526.

Further to provide for the payment of awards in favor of claimants under the Convention between the United States
and the Mexican Republic of the 11th April, 1839.
WHEREAS, by the Convention between the United States and the Mexican Republic, of the 11th Apri , 1839, it is stipulated that, if it should not be convenient to the Axican Government to pay at once the sums found to be due to the claimants under that Convention-that

Government shall be at liberty to issue Treasury notes in satisfaction of

those sums ; and whereas, the Government of Mexico [ is ] anxious to

comply with the terms of said Convention, and to pay those awards in full, but finds it inconvenient either to pay them in money or to issue

the said Treasury notes : The President of the United States has, for

the purpose of carrying into full effect the intentions of the said parties, conferred full powers on Waddy Thompson, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister of the United States to the Mexican Government, and the

President of the Mexican Republic has conferred full powers on their

Excellencies, José Maria de Bocanegra, Minister of Foreign Relations,

and Manuel Eduardo de Gorostiza, Minister of Finance. And the said

plenipotentiaries , after having exchanged their full powers, found to be

in due form, have agreed to and concluded the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Mexico to pay oalnl tihnteer3e0stthdue April 1843.

On the 30th day of April, 1843, the Mexican Government shall pay all the interest which may then be due on the awards in favor of claimants under the Convention of the 11th of April, 1839, in gold or silver money, in the city of Mexico.

Principal and interest to be paid in five
years.

ARTICLE II.
The principal of the said awards and the interest accruing thereon, shall be paid in five years, in equal instalments every three months, the said term of five years to commence on the 30th day of April, 1843, aforesaid.
ARTICLE III.

Payments to
be made in the
city of Mexico, in gold or silver.

The payments aforesaid shall be made in the city of Mexico to such person as the United States may authorize to receive them, in gold or silver money. But no circulation, export, nor other duties shall be charged thereon-and the Mexican Government takes the risk , charges,
and expenses of the transportation of the money to the city of Vera Cruz.

ARTICLE IV.
Mexico pledges The Mexican Government hereby solemnly pledges the proceeds of the proceeds of the direct taxes of the Mexican Republic for the payment of the instaldirect taxes.
ments and interest aforesaid , but it is understood that whilst no other
fund is thus specifically hypothecated, the Government of the United States, by accepting this pledge, does not incur any obligation to look for payment of those instalments and interest to that fund alone.

(a) For the convention between the United States and Mexico of April 11 , 1839 , see ante, page 526. (578)

CONVENCION
Para mejor asegurár el pago de los fallos en favor de los
reclamantes en virtud del convenio entre la República
Mexicana y los Estados Unidos de 11 de Abril, de 1839.
Por cuanto por el convenio entre la República Mexicana y los Estados Unidos de 11 de Abril , de 1839 , está estipulado que si no le fuere comodo al Gobierno Mexicano satisfacer al contado las cantidades que resultare deudor á virtud de esa Convencion , el mismo tendrá la facultad de emitir libranzas de Tesoreria en pago de esas cantidades, y por cuanto èl Gobierno de Mexico deseoso de cumplir con las condiciones de dicho convenio y á pagar estos fallos en su monto total se encuentra que no le conviene ó pagarlos en dinero ó emitir dichas libranzas : El Presidente de la República Mexicana con objeto de llevar á pleno efecto las intenciones de ambas partes, ha conferido plenos poderes á los Escelentisimos Señores D. José Maria de Bocanegra, Ministro de Relaciones exteriores y Gobernacion, y Don Manuel Eduardo de Gorostiza, Ministro de Hacienda ; y el Presidente de los Estados Unidos al Honorable Señor Waddy Thompson, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciaro de dichos Estados cerca del Gobierno de Mexico. Y dichos plenipotenciarios, despues de haber cambiado sus plenos poderes y encontradolos en debida forma, han convenido y concluido los articulos siguientes :
ARTICULO I.
En el dia 30 de Abril, de 1843, el Gobierno Mexicano pagará todo el interes estuviere vencido sobre los fallos en favor de los reclamantes á virtud del convenio del 11 de Abril , de 1839, en moneda de oro ó en plata en la ciudad de Mexico.
ARTICULO II.
El principal de dichos fallos y el interes, que se vaya venciendo sobre ellos, se pagará en cinco años, en pagos iguales de cada tres meses, dicho termino de cinco años comenzará el dia 30 de Abril, de 1843, como está dicho.
ARTICULO III.
Los pagos arriba indicados se harán en la ciudad de Mexico á la persona que los Estados Unidos autorizen á recibirlos en oro ó en plata. Pero no se pagará sobre estas cantidades derecho de circulacion , de exportacion ú otra clase que fuere sobre el mismo. Y el Gobierno Mexicano tomará sobre si el riesgo, cargos y gastos de transportacion del dinero hasta la ciudad de Vera Cruz .
ARTICULO IV.
El Gobierno Mexicano por este articulo hypoteca solemnemente los productos de contribuciones directas de la República Mexicana para el pago de las cantidades señaladas, y su interes ; pero se entiende que si bien no se hipoteca ningun otro fondo especialmente, no por esto el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos con aceptar esta hipoteca, contrae ninguna obligacion de limitarse para el pago de estos dividendos y su interes solamente á este fondo.
(579)

580

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1843.

ARTICLE V.

Mexico to pay two and a half per centum on each payment to cover
charges.

As this new arrangement, which is entered into for the accommoda tion of Mexico, will involve additional charges of freight, commission, & c., the Government of Mexico hereby agrees to add two and a half

per centum on each of the aforesaid payments on account of said

charges.

ARTICLE VI.

New conven.
tion to be enter ed into for the settlement of all claims on Mexico.

A new Convention shall be entered into for the settlement of all claims of the Government and citizens of the United States against the Republic of Mexico, which were not finally decided by the late commission which met in the city of Washington, and of all claims of the Government and citizens of Mexico against the United States.

Ratifications, when to be ex-
changed.

ARTICLE VII.
The ratifications of this Convention shall be exchanged at Washington within three months after the date thereof, provided it shall arrive at Washington before the adjournment of the present session of Congress-and if not, then within one month after the meeting of the next Congress of the United States.

In faith whereof, we, the plenipotentiaries of the United States of America and of the Mexican Republic, have signed and sealed these presents.

Done at the city of Mexico on the thirtieth day of January, in the

year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-three, and

in the sixty-seventh year of the Independence of the United States

of America, and in the twenty-third year of that of the Mexican

Republic.

WADDY THOMPSON ,

(L. S.)

J. MA. DE BOCANEGRA, (L. s.) M. E. DE GOROSTIZA, (L. S.)

CONVENTION FOR THE SURRENDER OF CRIMINALS,

Nov. 9, 1843. Between the United States of America and His Majesty the

Ratifications exchanged , April 12, 1844. Proclamation ofthe President of the United
S1t8a4t4e.s, April 30, Preamble.

King of the French. (a)
THE United States of America and his Majesty the King of the French having judged it expedient, with a view to the better adminis tration of justice, and to the prevention of crime within their respective territories and jurisdictions, that persons charged with the crimes hereinafter enumerated, and being fugitives from justice, should, under cer-

tain circumstances, be reciprocally delivered up ; the said United States of America and His Majesty the King of the French have named as

their plenipotentiaries to conclude a convention for this purpose ; that

is to say, the President of the United States of America, Abel P. Upshur,

Secretary of State of the United States ; and His Majesty the King of the French, the Sieur Pageot, officer of the Royal Order of the Legion

of Honor, his Minister Plenipotentiary, ad interim, in the United States

(a) See notes of the treaties and conventions with France, ante, page 6.

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1843.

581

ARTICULO V.
Como este nuevo arreglo que se adopta parà la comodidad de Mexico, ha de occasionar cargos adicionales de fletes, comisiones, & c. &c., el Gobierno de Mexico se compromete por la presente á aumentar en un dos y medio por ciento, cada uno de dichos pagos á causa de los gastos arriba mencionados.
ARTICULO VI.
Se celebrará una nueva Convencion para el arreglo de todas las reclamaciones del Gobierno y ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos contra la República Mexicana que no fueron decididas por la última comision que se reunió en la ciudad de Washington, y de todas las reclamaciones del Gobierno Mexicano y sus ciudadanos contra los Estados Unidos.
ARTICULO VII.
Esta Convencion se ratificará y las ratificaciones serán cangeadas en Washington dentro de tres meses contados desde su fecha, siempre que se reciba en Washington antes del termino de la actual sesion del Congreso, y en caso contrario, las ratificaciones serán cangeadas dentro de un mes despues de la reunion del procsimo Congreso de los Estados Unidos.
En fé de lo cual nosotros los plenipotenciarios de la República Mexicana y de los Estados Unidos de America, hemos firmado y sellado el presente.
Fecho en la ciudad de Mexico el dia treinta de Enero del año de mil ochocientos cuarenta y tres, vigesimo tercio de la Independencia de la Republica Mexicana y sexagesimo septimo de la de los Estados Unidos de America.

J. MA. DE BOCANEGRA, M. E. DE GOROSTIZA, WADDY THOMPSON,

( L. 8. ) (L. S.) (L. S.)

CONVENTION POUR L'EXTRADITION DE CRIMINELS,
Entre les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français.
Les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français, ayant jugé convenable, en vue d'une meilleure administration de la justice, et pour prévenir les crimes dans leurs territoires et jurisdictions respectifs, que les individus accusés des crimes ci-après énumérés, et qui se seraient soustraits par la fuite aux poursuites de la justice, fussent, dans certaines circonstances, réciproquement, extradés, les Etats Unis d'Amérique et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français ont nommé pour leurs plénipotentiaires, à l'effet de conclure dans ce but une convention, savoir : le President des Etats Unis d'Amérique Abel P. Upshur, Secretaire d'Etat des Etats Unis, et Sa Majesté le Roi des Français le Sieur Pageot, officier de l'Ordre Royal de la Légion d'Honneur, son ministre plénipotentiaire , par interim, auprès les Etats Unis d'Amérique ; lesquels, après s'être
2x2

582

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1843.

of America ; who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Persons ac-
cused of crimes to be given up to justice, upon requisitions, & c.
1848, ch. 167. Proviso.

It is agreed that the high contracting parties shall, on requisitions made in their name, through the medium of their respective diplomatic agents, deliver up to justice persons who, being accused of the crimes
enumerated in the next following article, committed within the jurisdic tion of the requiring party, shall seek an asylum, or shall be found within the territories of the other : Provided, That this shall be done only when the fact of the commission of the crime shall be so established as that the laws of the country in which the fugitive or the person so accused shall be found would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial , if the crime had been there committed.

ARTICLE II.

Persons to be delivered up
wmiutsht cbeerctahianrged specified crimes.
Post. p. 617.

Persons shall be so delivered up who shall be charged, according to the provisions of this convention, with any of the following crimes, to wit : murder, (comprehending the crimes designated in the French
penal code by the terms, assassination , parricide, infanticide , and poisoning,) or with an attempt to commit murder, or with rape, or with forgery, or with arson, or with embezzlement by public officers, when the same is punishable with infamous punishment.

ARTICLE III.

Surrender, by whom to be made.

On the part of the French Government, the surrender shall be made only by authority of the Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice ; and on the part of the Government of the United States, the surrender shall be made only by authority of the Executive thereof.

ARTICLE IV.

Expenses to

The expenses of any detention and delivery effected in virtue of the

be borne bythe preceding provisions, shall be borne and defrayed by the Government

party making in whose name the requisition shall have been made. requisition.

ARTICLE V.

Not to apply to crimes here.
tofore committed, or political offences.

The provisions of the present convention shall not be applied in any manner to the crimes enumerated in the second article, committed anterior to the date thereof, nor to any crime or offence of a purely political character.
ARTICLE VI.

To continue till abrogated.
Ratifications to be exchanged within six months.

This convention shall continue in force until it shall be abrogated by
the contracting parties, or one of them ; but it shall not be abrogated except by mutual consent, unless the party desiring to abrogate it shall give six months' previous notice of his intention to do so. It shall be ratified, and the ratifications shall be exchanged within the space of six months, or earlier if possible.

In witness whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the present convention in duplicate, and have affixed thereto the seal of their arms.

Done at Washington, the ninth day of November, Anno Domini one thousand eight hundred and forty-three.

A. P. UPSHUR , (L. s. )

A. PAGEOT ,

(L. s.)

CONVENTION WITH FRANCE. 1843.

583

communiqué leurs pleins pouvoirs respectifs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrété et conclu les articles suivants :

ARTICLE I.
Il est convenu que les hautes parties contractantes, sur les réquisitions faites en leur nom par l'intermédiaire de leurs agents diplomatiques respectifs, seront tenus de livrer en justice les individus qui, accusés des crimes énumérés dans l'article suivant, commis dans la jurisdiction de la partie requérante, chercheront un asile ou seront rencontrés dans les territoires de l'autre ; pourvu que cela n'ait lieu que dans le cas où l'existence du crime sera constatée de telle manière que les lois du pays, où le fugitif ou l'individu ainsi accusé sera rencontré, justifieraient sa détention et sa mise en jugement, si le crime y avait été commis.

ARTICLE II.
Seront livrés, en vertue des dispositions de cette convention, les ndividus qui seront accusés de l'un des crimes suivants, savoir : meurtre, (y compris les crimes qualifiés dans le code penal Français, d'assassinat, de parricide, d'infanticide, et d'empoisonnement, ) ou tentative de meurtre, ou viol , ou faux, ou incendie, ou soustractions commises par les depositaires publics, mais seulement dans le cas où elles seront punies de peines infamantes.
ARTICLE III.
L'extradition ne sera effectuée de la part du Gouvernement Français, que sur l'avis du Ministre de la Justice, Garde des Sceaux ; et de la part du Gouvernment des Etats Unis, l'extradition ne sera effectuée que sur l'ordre de l'Exécutif des Etats Unis.
ARTICLE IV. Les frais de toute détention et extradition, opéreés en vertu des articles précédents, seront supportés et payés par le Gouvernement au nom duquel la réquisition aura été faite.
ARTICLE V.
Les dispositions de la présente convention ne s'appliqueront en aucune manierè aux crimes énumerés dans l'article 2, commis antérieurement à sa date, ni aux crimes ou delits purement politiques.
ARTICLE VI.
Cette convention continuera d'être en vigueur jusqu'à ce qu'elle soit abrogée par les parties contractantes, ou l'une d'elles ; mais elle ne pourra être abrogée que d'un consentement mutuel, à moins que la partie qui désirerait l'abroger ne donne avis, six mois d'avance , de son intention de la faire. Elle sera ratifiée, et les ratifications en seront échangées, dans l'espace de six mois, ou plustôt si faire se peut.
En foi de quoi, les plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signé la présente convention en double, et y ont apposé le sceau de leurs armes.

Fait à Washington, le neuvième jour de November , l'an de grace mil huit cent quarante-trois.

A. PAGEOT ,

(L. S.)

A. P. UPSHUR, (L. S. )

POSTAL CONVENTION

March 6, 1844. Between the United States of North America and the

Ratifications
exchanged, Dec. 20, 1844. Proclamation ofthe President of the U. S., Feb. 22, 1845. Preamble.

Republic of New Granada.
THE Republics of the United States of North America, and of New Granada, being desirous of drawing more closely the relations existing between the two countries and of facilitating the prompt and regular transportation of the correspondence of the United States across the

Isthmus of Panamá, have agreed to conclude a Postal Convention-for

which purpose, his Excellency the President of the United States

named, as a Plenipotentiary, William M. Blackford, their Chargé

d'Affairs at Bogota, and his Excellency the President of New Granada,

Joaquin Acosta, Colonel of Artillery and Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs who have agreed upon the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Transmission of the U.S. mail across the Isthmus of Pa.
nama.

The packet vessels of war of the Republic of the United States will disembark at Chagres or Porto-bello, the sealed bag or packet, which may contain the letters and newspapers, destined to cross the Isthmus of Panamá, which said bag or packet shall be delivered to the Post-

master, of one or the other of these places, by whom it shall be forwarded to Panamá, for the consideration of thirty dollars for each trip-

provided the weight of the bag or packet should not exceed one hundred

pounds, and in the proportion of twelve dollars more for each succeed-

ing hundred pounds, which sum shall be paid though the excess should not amount to one hundred pounds.

ARTICLE II.

Postage on letters , & c. that dIsotnhomtucsr.oss the

With respect to the letters and newspapers the said vessels may have on board, which shall not be intended to cross the Isthmus, but to be delivered at any point on the Atlantic coast of New Granada, the practice, established in conformity to the New Granadian rates of postage, shall be continued.
ARTICLE III.

Disposition of the mail upon
its arrival in Panama.

The Consul, or other Agent, of the United States at Panamá, shall receive the bag, unopened , and, after delivering to the post office all the correspondence, except letters to himself, directed to Panamá or other

points of the Granadian Territory, (which correspondence shall be sub-
jected to the usual rates of postage established in New Granada, ) he shall retain the remainder to be forwarded to its destination as soon as

an opportunity occurs.

ARTICLE IV.

Transmission The Post Office at Panamá will charge itself likewise with forwarding

of the mail from the mail bag or packet, which it may receive from the Consul or other Panama to Cha-
gres or Porto- agent of the United States, to the Post Office of Chagres or Porto-bello,

bello.

at which place it shall be delivered to the Consul, or other agent, of the

United States, or, in their default, to the commander of the vessel of

war, calling for it, under the same conditions stipulated in the 1st article.

(584)

CONVENCION POSTAL

Entre la Republica de la Neuva Granada y los Estados Unidos del Norte-America.

DESEANDO las Republicas de la Nueva Granada y de los Estados Unidos del Norte America facilitar y estrechar mas las relaciones entre los dos pueblos, y la pronta y regular conduccion de las correspondencias de los Estados Unidos al travez del Istmo de Panamá, han convenido en celebrar una Convencion de correos ; para lo cual su Escelencia el Presidente de la Nueva Granada nombró como Plenipotenciario al Coronel de Artilleria_Joaquin Acosta, Secretario de Estado del Despacho de Relaciones Esteriores, y su Escelencia el Presidente de los Estados Unidos al Señor Guillermo M. Blackford, su Encargado de Negocios en Bogotá, los que acordaron los articulos siguientes.
ARTICULO I.
Los buques de guerra correos de la República de los Estados Unidos desembarcarán en-Chagres ó en Porto-belo la balija ó paquete cerrado que contenga las correspondencias é impresos destinados á atravesar el Istmo de Panamá ; la cual balija ó paquete sera á entregada al respectivo Administrador de correos y dirijida por el a Panamá, mediante la indemnizacion de treinta pesos fuertes por cada viaje, siempre que el peso de la balija ó paquete no excediere de cien libras, y en la proporcion de doce pesos fuertes mas por cada cien libras de exceso, que se pagaran aun cuando el exceso del peso no llegare a cien libras.

ARTICULO II.
Respecto de la correspondencia é impresos que conduzcan los mencionados buques y que vengan destinados, no á atravezar el Istmo, sino a ser entregados en cualesquiera puntos de su litoral Atlantico, se continuará la practica establecida, conforme á la tarifa de correos de la Nueva Granada.
ARTICULO III.
El Cónsul ú otro Ajente de los Estados Unidos en Panamá recibirá la balija cerrada y, a excepcion de sus proprias cartas, entregará en la administracion de correos toda la correspondencia dirijida a Panamá ú otros puntos del territorio granadino (la cual pagará el porte de la tarifa de correos de la Nueva Granada, ) reservandose la restante para remitirla á su destino cuando haya oportunidad.

ARTICULO IV.

La administracion de correos de Panamá se encargará igualmente de

enviar la balija ó paquete de correspondencia, que le entregue el Consul

ú otro Agente de los Estados Unidos para ser conducida á la Adminis-

tracion de correos de Chagres , ó Porto- belo de donde se derijirá al Con-

sul ú otro Ajente de los Estados Unidos, ó si no lo hubiere á los respec-

tivos Comandantes de buques de guerra, que la demandaren, bajo las

mismas condiciones estipulados en el Articulo 1 .

VOL. VIII. 74

(585)

586

CONVENTION WITH NEW GRANADA. 1844.

ARTICLE V.

Payment for
the transmission of the mail.

The Consul, or other agent, of the United States residing at Panamá shall be the person whose duty it is to pay for the carriage of the bag, across the Isthmus, as well when he receives it from the Post Office at Panamá after it has crossed the Isthmus, as when he delivers it to the

said Post Office to be sent to Chagres or Port-Bello.

ARTICLE VI .

Packets to

The said packet vessels which shall or may be established, will bring to

pcaaprerryslebtteetrws eaennd the two countries without
compensation.

the ports of New Granada at which they may touch-and will also take from them to those of the United States- all official and private letters and newspapers, without any compensation whatever-Granadian vessels
will be subject to the same conditions if, at any time, it may be thought advisable to contribute with them to the establishment of a line of

packets between the ports of the United States and those of New Granada.

ARTICLE VII.

U.S. packets
t&o cc.afrrroymleottneers, port of N. Granada to another without charge.

The packet vessels of war of the United States will also carry, free of charge, all the official or private letters and newspapers, which may
be delivered to them, from one port of New Granada to another at
which they may touch. ARTICLE VIII.

Relative to the
icnotalrsod, uschtoiuolndof U. S. employ steamers .

If the Government of the United States should think fit to employ
steamers, as packets, between New Grenada and the said United States, the coals which may be brought for the use of such vessels shall then enjoy, in the Granadian ports, the same exemptions, as to introduction and deposite, which may have been granted in said ports to the coals destined for the steamers of any other power.

ARTICLE IX.

Advantages
arising from this convention, to be considered as
compensation for the obligations.

The Republics of the United States and New Granada, being desirous of avoiding all interpretations, contrary to their intentions, declare, that any advantage, or advantages, that one or the other power may enjoy, from the foregoing stipulations, are and ought to be under-
stood in virtue and as in compensation of the obligations they have just contracted in the present postal convention.

ARTICLE X.
When the con- For the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the present vention shall go convention as soon as possible, the two high contracting parties have into effect.
agreed , that said provisions shall begin to be enforced immediately after the Governor of the Province of Panamá has official knowledge that the present convention has been ratified by the Government of New
Granada, and that the Consul, or other agent, of the United States shall have communicated to him that it has been also ratified by the Government of that Republic.

ARTICLE XI.

Duration of the convention.

The present convention shall remain in force and vigor for the ter of eight years, to be counted from the day on which the exchange oi
the ratifications may be made-which shall take place in Bogotá as soon as possible and shall continue in the same force and vigor for another term of four years more ; and so on, always for another term of four years more, until one of the two Governments shall give the other six months' notice of its wish that the same shall terminate.

CONVENTION WITH NEW GRANADA. 1844.

587

ARTICULO V.
El Cónsul ú otro Ajente de los Estados Unidos residente en Panamá, ser la persona encargada de satisfacer el porte que haya devengado la balija, tanto al recibirla de la administracion de correos de Panamá despues de que haya atravezado el Istmo, como al entregarsela para ser conducida a Chagres, ó Porto-belo.
ARTICULO VI.
Los mencionados buques correos que se establezcan , ó en adelante se establecieren, traerán á aquellos puertos de la Nueva Granada en que tocaren, y llevarán de estos á los de los Estados Unidos toda la correspondencia asi oficial, como particular, y los impresos sin percibir porte alguno. A las mismas condiciones quedarán sujetos los buques granadinos, si alguna vez se juzgare oportuno contribuir con ellos al establecimiento de alguna linea de buques correos entre los puertos granadinos y los de los Estados Unidos.
ARTICULO VII.
Tambien llevaran gratuitamente los buques de guerra correos de los Estados Unidos toda la correspondencia oficial, ó particular, y los impresos que se les confiaren, de un puerto á otro de la Nueva Granada en que tocaren.
ARTICULO VIII.
Si el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos tuviere por conveniente destinar al servicio de correos entre la Nueva Granada y dichos Estados algunos buques de vapor, los carbones que se traigan para el uso de tales buques, disfrutarán entonces en los puertos Granadinos las mismas excenciones, relativas a introduccion y deposito, que se hayan otorgado en los men . cionados puertos a los carbones destinados para el uso de los buques de vapor de cualquiera otra potencia.
ARTICULO IX .
La Republica de la Nueva Granada y la de los Estados Unidos deseando evitar toda interpretacion contraria á sus intenciones, declaran que cualquier ventaja ó ventajas que la una ó la otra potencia reporten de las estipulaciones anteriores, son y deben entenderse en virtud y como compensacion de las obligaciones que acaban de contraer en la presente convencion postal.
ARTICULO X.
Con el objeto de que las estipulaciones de la presente convencion se lleven a effecto lo mas pronto que sea posible, las dos altas partes contratantes han convenido en que dichas estipulaciones principiarán a cumplirse inmediatamente que el Gobernador de la provincia de Panamá sepa oficialmente la ratificacion de la presente convencion por parte del Gobierno de la Nueva Granada, y que el Consul ú otro Agente de los Estados Unidos le haya comunicado igual ratificacion prestada por el Gobierno de la ultima Republica.
ARTICULO XI.
La presente Convencion permanecerá en fuerza y vigor por el termino de ocho años contados desde el dia del canje de sus ratificaciones, que se verificará en Bogotá lo mas pronto que sea posible, y continuará con la misma fuerza y vigor por otro termino de cuatro años mas, y asi sucsesivamente siempre por un termino de otros cuatro años mas, hasta que uno de los dos Gobiernos notifique al otro, con anticipacion de seis meses, su voluntad de que termine la convencion.

588

CONVENTION WITH WURTTEMBURG. 1844.

In faith whereof the Plenipotentiaries of the two Republics have

signed and sealed the present Convention in Bogotá, on the sixth day of the month of March, in the year of our Lord one thou sand eight hundred and forty-four.

WM. M. BLACKFORD, (L. S.)

JOAQUIN ACOSTA,

(L. S.)

CONVENTION

April 0, 1844. For the mutual abolition of the droit d'aubaine and taxes

Ratifications
exchanged, Oct. 3. 1844. Proclamation of the President of the U. S., Dec. 16 , 1844. Preamble.

on emigration between the United States of America ana his Majesty the King of Wurttemburg.
THE United States of America and His Majesty the King of Wurt-

temburg having resolved, for the advantage of their respective citizens and subjects, to conclude a Convention for the mutual abolition of the droit d'aubaine and taxes on emigration, have named for this purpose their respective Plenipotentiaries, namely the President of the United States of America has conferred full powers on Henry Wheaton their Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at the Royal Court of Prussia and His Majesty the King of Wurttemburg upon Baron de Maucler, his Captain of the Staff and Chargé d'Affaires at the said court, who after having exchanged their said full powers, found in due and proper form, have agreed to & signed the following articles :.

ARTICLE I.

Droits d'au-
baine, & c. abolished .

Every kind of droit d'aubaine, droit de retraite, and droit de détrac-

tion or tax on emigration , is, hereby, and shall remain abolished, be-

tween the two contracting parties, their States, citizens, & subjects re-

spectively.

ARTICLE II.

Heirs to real
perdotpiemretytoalsellolw the same, & c.

Where, on the death of any person holding real property within the territories of one party, such real property would, by the laws of the land, descend on a citizen or subject of the other were he not disqualified by alienage, such citizen or subject shall be allowed a term of two years to sell the same,-which term may be reasonably prolonged, according to circumstances,-and to withdraw the proceeds thereof, without molestation, & exempt from all duties of detraction .

ARTICLE III.

Duties on dis-
posal of personal property the same as paid by inhabitants.

The citizens or subjects of each of the contracting parties shall have power to dispose of their personal property within the States of the other, by testament, donation , or otherwise , and their heirs, legatees, and donees, being citizens or subjects of the other contracting party, shall succeed to their said personal property, and may take possession. thereof, either by themselves, or by others acting for them, and dispose

CONVENTION WITH WURTTEMBURG. 1844.

589

En fé de lo cual los plenipotenciarios de las dos Republicas han fir-
mado y sellado la presente Convencion en Bogatá a los seis dias del mes de Marzo del año del Señor de mil ochocientos cuarenta

y cuatro.

JOAQUIN ACOSTA,

(L. S.)

WM. M. BLACKFORD, (L. S.)

VERTRAG
Uber die gegenseitige Aufhebung von Heimfalls (Frem-
dling) Recht und Auswanderungs- Steueren zwischen den
Vereinigten Staaten von Nord Amerika und Seiner
Majestat dem König von Würtemburg.
NACHDEM die Vereinigten Staaten von Nord Amerika und Sein Majestät der König von Würtemberg beschlossen haben : zum Besten der beiderseitigen Staats-Angehörigen einen Vertrag über gegenseitige Aufhebung von Heimfalls (Fremdling) Recht und AuswanderungsSteueren abzuschliessen, so sind dazu von beiden seiten Bevollmägtigte ernannt worden, nämlich von Seiten des Präsidenten der Vereinigten Staaten von Nord Amerika, Herr Heinrich Wheaton Nord Amerikanischer ausserordentlicher Gesandter und bevollmachtigter Minister am Königlich Preussischen Hofe, und von Seiten Seiner Majestät des Königs von Würtemberg, Freiherr von Maucler Hauptman am Generalstabe und Geschäftstrager Seiner Majestät am Königlich Preussischen Hofe, welche Bevollmachtigte, nach vollzogener Auswechselung ihrer gegenseitig in rechtiger und gehöriger Form, beundenen Vollmachten, nachstehende Artikel festgesetzt und unterzeichnet haben.
ARTIKEL I.
Jede art von Heimfalls (Fremdling) Recht, Nachsteuer, und Abzugsrecht, oder Auswanderungs Steuer, ist und bleibt aufgehoben zwischen beiden abschliessenden Theilen, ihren beiderseitigen Staaten, und Staats-Angehörigen.
ARTIKEL II.
Wenn durch den Tod irgend eines besitzers von Immobilien oder Grund-eigenthum, welche sich auf dem Gebiete des einen der abschliessenden Theile befinden, diese Immobilien oder Grund-eigenthum nach den Gesetzen des Landes auf einen Staats-Angehörigen des anderen Theils, übergehen sollten, so wird diesem , wenn er durch seine Eigenschaft als Fremder zum Besitze derselben unfähig ist, ein Aufschub von zwei Jahren gewahrt-welcher Termin nach Umständen in angemessener Weise verlangert werden kann dieselbe zu verkaufen und um der Ertrag davon ohne Anstand, und frei von jeder - Abzugs-Steuer zu beziehen.
ARTIKEL III.
Den Staats-Angehörigen eines jeden der abschliessender Theile , soll in den Staaten der anderen , die Freiheit zustehen , über ihre beweglichen Güter durch Testament, Schenkung oder auf andere Weise zu verfügen, und deren Erben ab-intestato oder Rechts-nachfolger, durch Testament oder Schenkung sollen wenn sie Staats-Angehörige des anderen der beiden abschliessenden Theile sind, ihnen in dem Besitze
2Z

590

CONVENTION WITH WURTTEMBURG . 1844.

of the same at their pleasure, paying such duties only as the inhabitants of the country where the said property lies , shall be liable to pay in like cases.

Property of absent heirs to be taken care
of.

ARTICLE IV.
In case of the absence ofthe heirs, the same care shall be taken, provisionally, of such real or personal property, as would be taken in a like case of property belonging to the natives of the country until the lawful owner, or the person who has a right to sell the same according to Article 2, may take measures to receive or dispose of the inheritance.

ARTICLE V.

Disputes to be If any dispute should arise between different claimants to the same

decided by the local laws.

inheritance, they shall be decided, in the last resort, according to the

laws, and by the judges of the country where the property is situated.

Property not yet withdrawn embraced.

ARTICLE VI.
All the stipulations of the present Convention shall be obligatory in respect to property already inherited or bequeathed, but not yet withdrawn from the country where the same is situated at the signature of this Convention.

ARTICLE VII.

Convention
subject to ratification , & c.

This Convention is concluded subject to the ratification of the President of the United States of America, by & with the advice and consent of their Senate, and of His Majesty the King of Wurttemburg, and the ratifications thereof shall be exchanged at Berlin, within the term of twelve months from the date of the signature hereof, or sooner if possible.

In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, as well in English as in German, and have thereto affixed their seals.
Done in triplicata, in the city of Berlin, on the tenth day of April, one thousand eight hundred & forty-four, in the 68th year of the Independence of the United States of America, and the twentyeighth of the reign of His Majesty the King of Wurttemberg.
HENRY WHEATON, (L. s.)

CONVENTION WITH WURTTEMBURG. 1844.

591

ihrer beweglichen Güter folgen , auch in Person sowohl als durch andern, welche an ihrer stelle handeln davon Besitz ergreifen und nach gut denken damit schalten können, ohne Andere Steuern zu bezahlen als solche , welchen die Einwohner des Landes, worin sich die genannten Güte befinden, bei gleichem Anlasse unterworfen sind
ARTIKEL IV.
Im Falle der abwesenheit der Erben, wird man hinsichtlich der erwöhnten beweglichen oder unbeweglichen Güten provizorisch ganz dieselbe Sorgfalt amwenden, welche man bei gleichen Anlasse, hinsichtlich der Güter der eingebornen angewendet hatte, bis der gesetzmassige Eigenthümer oder derjenige welcher nach Art. 2, das Recht hat : dieselben zu verkaufen Anordnungen zu treffen, für gut finden wird : um die Erbschaft anzutreten oder daruber zu verfügen.
ARTIKEL V.
Wenn sich Streitigkeiten zwischen verschiedenen rechtlichen Anspruch auf die Erbschaft habenden Prátendentem erheben, so werden dieselben in letzter Instanz nachdem Gesetzen und von den Richtern des Landes anschieden werden , in welchen das Object der Erbschaft sich befindet.
ARTIKEL VI.
Sammtliche in gegenwärtigem Vertrage, enthaltenen Bestimmungen , sollen auch im Ansehung solcher Vermögens Theile verbindliche Kraft haben welche zur Zeit der Unterzeichnung des gegenwärtigen Vertrags bereits angefallen, jedoch nach nicht wirklich exportirt sind.
ARTIKEL VII.
Gegenwärtiger Vertrag ist abgeschlossen worden vorbehaltlich der Ratification des Präsidenten der Vereinigten Staaten von Nord Amerika, nach und mit dem Rathe und der Einwilligung des nordamerikanischen Senats, und vorbehaltlich der Ratification Seiner Majestät des Königs von Würtemberg, und es soll die Auswechselung der Ratifications Urkünden innerhalb zwolf Monaten , vom Tage der Unterzeichnung des gegenwärtigen Vertrags angerechnet, oder früher wenn es moglich ist, zu Berlin stattfinden.

In Urkund dessen, haben die beiderseitigen Bevollmachtigten, oberstehende Artikel, sowohl in englischer als in deutscher Sprache unterzeichnet, und ihre Siegel beigedruckt.
Ausgestellt in drei Exemplaren, zu Berlin den zehnten April, Ein Tausend Acht Hundert Vier und Vierzig, im acht und sechszig sten Jahre der Unabhangigkeit der Vereinigten Staaten von Nord Amerika, und im act und zwansigsten Jahre der Regierung Seiner Majestät des Königs von Würtemberg.
FREIHERR VON MAUCLER, (L. s.)

July 3, 1844.

TREATY WITH CHINA .

Ratifications
exchanged, Dec. 31, 1845. Proclamation of the President of the U.S.,
April 18, 1846.

THE United States of America and the Ta Tsing Empire, desiring to
establish firm , lasting, and sincere friendship between the two nations, have resolved to fix, in a manner clear and positive, by means of a treaty or general convention of peace, amity, and commerce, the rules which shall in future be mutually observed in the intercourse of their respective countries :-For which most desirable object, the President of the United

States has conferred full powers on their Commissioner Caleb Cushing, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States to China ; and the August Sovereign of the Ta Tsing Empire on his Minister and Commissioner Extraordinary Tsiyeng, of the Imperial

House, a vice Guardian of the Heir Apparent, Governor-general of the

Two Kwang, and Superintendant General of the trade and foreign intercourse of the five ports.

And the said Commissioners, after having exchanged their said full

powers, and duly considered the premises, have agreed to the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Peace and eadmibteytewseteanbltihshe U.S. and China.

There shall be a perfect, permanent, universal peace, and a sincere and cordial amity, between the United States of America on the one part, and the Ta Tsing Empire on the other part, and between their
people respectively, without exception of persons or places.

ARTICLE II.

Citizens ofthe U.S. trading with China to
pay the duties, & c.

Citizens of the United States resorting to China for the purposes of commerce will pay the duties of import and export prescribed in the Tariff, which is fixed by and made a part of this Treaty. They shall , in no case, be subject to other or higher duties than are or shall be re-

Fees, & c.

quired of the people of any other nation whatever. Fees and charges of

wholly abolished .

every sort are wholly abolished , and officers of the revenue, who may be

Modification of guilty of exaction, shall be punished according to the laws of China. If

the tariff, how the Chinese Government desire to modify, in any respect, the said Tariff,

to be made.

such modification shall be made only in consultation with consuls or

Additional ad-
vantages, if hereafter extended to any
other nation, & c.

other functionaries thereto duly authorized in behalf of the United States, and with consent thereof. And if additional advantages or privileges of whatever description, be conceded hereafter by China to any other nation, the United States, and the citizens thereof, shall be entitled thereupon, to a complete, equal, and impartial participation in the same.

ARTICLE III.

Ports which may be fre-
quented by citi zens ofthe U.S. who may reside there, & c.
Vessels of U.S. not to trade at
any other port, & c. Penalty.

The citizens of the United States are permitted to frequent the five ports of Kwang-chow, Amoy, Fuchow, Ningpo, and Shanghai, and to reside with their families and trade there, and to proceed at pleasure
with their vessels and merchandize to and from any foreign port and either ofthe said five ports, and from either of the said five ports to any other of them. But said vessels shall not unlawfully enter the other ports of China, nor carry on a clandestine and fraudulent trade along the coasts thereof. And any vessel belonging to a citizen ofthe United
States, which violates this provision , shall, with her cargo, be subject to confiscation to the Chinese Government.

ARTICLE IV.
For the superintendence and regulation of the concerns of the citizens of the United States doing business at the said five ports, the Govern
(592)

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

593

ment of the United States may appoint consuls, or other officers, at the U. S. may ap-

same, who shall be duly recognized as such by the officers of the Chinese

point consuls, & c.

Government, and shall hold official intercourse and correspondence with

the latter, either personal or in writing, as occasions may require, on terms of equality and reciprocal respect. If disrespectfully treated or aggrieved in any way by the local authorities, said officers on the one hand shall have the right to make representation of the same to the superior officers of the Chinese Government, who will see that full in-

Protection of
consuls, and other officers of the U. S.

quiry and strict justice be had in the premises ; and on the other hand, the said consuls will carefully avoid all acts of unnecessary offence to,

or collision with, the officers and people of China.

ARTICLE V.

At each of the said five ports, citizens of the United States lawfully Privilege of engaged in commerce, shall be permitted to import from their own or trade at the any other ports into China, and sell there, and purchase therein , and pgoirvtesn ntoamtheedciexport to their own or any other ports, all manner of merchandize, of tizens of the which the importation or exportation is not prohibited by this Treaty, U. S. paying the duties which are prescribed by the Tariff hereinbefore established, and no other charges whatsoever.

ARTICLE VI.
Whenever any merchant vessel belonging to the United States shall The papers of
enter either of the said five ports for trade, her papers shall be lodged vUe.sSs.elasrroifvitnhgeat with the consul , or person charged with affairs, who will report the same either ofthe five to the Commissioner of Customs ; and tonnage duty shall be paid on ports, to be left said vessel at the rate of five mace per ton , if she be over one hundred with the consul.
Tonnage duand fifty tons burden ; and one mace per ton if she be of the burden of ties to be paid one hundred and fifty tons or under, according to the amount of her at fixed rates, tonnage as specified in the register ; said payment to be in full of the in full of all the
former rates former charges of measurement and other fees, which are wholly abo- and charges. lished. And if any vessel, which having anchored at one of the said No additional
ports, and there paid tonnage duty, shall have occasion to go to any tonnage duties others of the said ports to complete the disposal of her cargo, the consul, to be paid by
vessels going or person charged with affairs, will report the same to the Commissioner from one to anof Customs, who, on the departure of the said vessel, will note in the other of the five
port-clearance that the tonnage duties have been paid, and report the ports.
same to the other custom-houses ; in which case on entering another
port the said vessel will only pay duty there on her cargo, but shall not
be subject to the payment of tonnage duty a second time.

ARTICLE VII.

No tonnage duty shall be required on boats belonging to citizens of the United States, employed in the conveyance of passengers, baggage, letters, and articles of provision, or others not subject to duty, to or from any of the five ports. All cargo-boats, however, conveying merchandize subject to duty, shall pay the regular tonnage duty of one mace per ton, provided they belong to citizens of the United States, but not if hired by them from subjects of China.

No tonnage
dountibeosattso bbee-laid
longing to citi. zens of U. S. , & c.
Duty on cargo boats.

ARTICLE VIII.

Citizens of the United States, for their vessels bound in, shall be Citizens of

allowed to engage pilots, who will report said vessels at the passes, and U. S. may en-

take them into port ; and, when the lawful duties have all been paid, gthaegier vpielsosteslsfo. r they may engage pilots to leave port. It shall also be lawful for them May hire ser.

to hire, at pleasure, servants, compradors, linguists, and writers, and vants , & c.

passage or cargo boats, and to employ laborers, seamen, and persons for

whatever necessary service, for a reasonable compensation , to be agreed

VOL. VIII. 75

2Z2

594

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

on by the parties, or settled by application to the consular officer of their
government, without interference on the part of the local officers ofthe Chinese government.

ARTICLE IX.

Custom - house officers to be
appointed to guard the vessels of U. S. on
arrival, &c.

Whenever merchant vessels belonging to the United States shall have entered port, the superintendent of customs will , if he see fit , appoint custom-house officers to guard said vessels, who may live on board the ship or their own boats, at their convenience ; but provision for the subsistence of said officers shall be made by the superintendent of customs, and they shall not be entitled to any allowance from the vessel or owner thereof; and they shall be subject to suitable punishment for any exaction practised by them in violation of this regulation.

ARTICLE X.

Proceedings of vessels ofthe U. S. on their
arrival in China.

Whenever a merchant vessel belonging to the United States shall cast anchor in either of said ports, the supercargo, master, or consignee,
will, within forty-eight hours, deposit the ship's papers in the hands of the consul or person charged with the affairs of the United States, who will cause to be communicated to the superintendent of customs a true

report of the name and tonnage of such vessel, the names of her men,

and of the cargo on board ; which being done, the superintendent will

give a permit for the discharge of her cargo.

Penalties for
discharging vessels without a permit.

And the master, supercargo, or consignee, if he proceed to discharge the cargo without such permit, shall incur a fine of five hundred dollars ; and the goods so discharged without permit shall be subject to forfeiture to the Chinese government. But if the master of any vessel

in port desire to discharge a part only of the cargo, it shall be lawful

for him to do so, paying duties on such part only, and to proceed with the remainder to any other ports.

Vessels depart-
ing within 48
hours, not to be subject to tonnage or other duties.

Or, if the master so desire, he may, within forty-eight hours after the arrival of the vessel, but not later, decide to depart without breaking bulk ; in which case he will not be subject to pay tonnage or other duties or charges, until, on his arrival at another port, he shall proceed to discharge cargo, when he will pay the duties on vessel and cargo, according to law. And the tonnage duties shall be held to be due after

the expiration of said forty-eight hours.

ARTICLE XI.

Appointment of officers to ascertain the duties to be paid on goods im-
ported.

The superintendent of customs, in order to the collection of the pro per duties, will, on application made to him through the consul, appoint suitable officers , who shall proceed, in the presence of the captain, supercargo, or consignee, to make a just and fair examination of all
goods in the act of being discharged for importation , or laden for exportation on board any merchant vessel of the United States. And if

Disputes as to
amount of duties, where and how settled.

dispute occur in regard to the value of goods subject to an ad valorem duty, or in regard to the amount of tare, and the same cannot be satisfactorily arranged by the parties, the question may, within twenty-four hours, and not afterwards, be referred to the said consul to adjust with

the superintendent of customs.

ARTICLE XII.

Standards of
weights and measures.

Sets of standard balances, and also weights and measures, duly prepared, stamped , and sealed, according to the standard of the custom at Canton, shall be delivered by the superintendents of customs to the consuls at each of the five ports, to secure uniformity, and prevent confusion in measures and weights of merchandize.

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

595

ARTICLE XIII.

The tonnage duty on vessels belonging to citizens of the United When tonnage States shall be paid on their being admitted to entry. Duties of import and other duties shall be paid on the discharge of the goods, and duties of export on the shall be paid.

lading of the same. When all such duties shall have been paid, and

not before, the superintendant of customs shall give a port-clearance, and the consul shall return the ship's papers, so that she may depart on her voyage. The duties shall be paid to the shroffs authorized by the

Chinese government to receive the same in its behalf. Duties payable by merchants of the United States shall be received either in sycee silver or in foreign money, at the rate of exchange as ascertained by the regulations now in force. And imported goods, on their resale or transit in any part of the empire, shall be subject to the imposition of no other duty than they are accustomed to pay at the date of this treaty.

Duties to be paid in sycee srielivgenr,moornienyfoa-t the current rate of exchange.

ARTICLE XIV.

No goods on board any merchant vessel of the United States in port are to be transhipped to another vessel, unless there be particular occasion therefor ; in which case, the occasion shall be certified by the consul to the superintendant of customs, who may appoint officers to examine into the facts, and permit the transhipment. And if any goods be transhipped without such application , inquiry, and permit, they shall be subject to be forfeited to the Chinese government.

Regulation of
transhipment of gveososdesl forfoUm. oSn.e to another.

ARTICLE XV.

The former limitation of the trade of foreign nations to certain persons appointed at Canton by the Government, and commonly called hong-merchants, having been abolished, citizens of the United States
engaged in the purchase or sale of goods of import or export, are admitted to trade with any and all subjects of China without distinction ; they shall not be subject to any new limitations, nor impeded in their business by monopolies or other injurious restrictions.

Citizens of
U. S. may trade with any and all subjects of China.
Not to be sub. ject to any new limitations, & c.

ARTICLE XVI.

The Chinese Government will not hold itself responsible for any debts Chinese gov

which may happen to be due from subjects of China to citizens

of the

ernment not responsible for

United States, or for frauds committed by them : but citizens of the debts due by its

United States may seek redress in law ; and on suitable representation subjects.

being made to the Chinese local authorities through the consul, they will cause due examination in the premises, and take all proper steps to

compel satisfaction . But in case the debtor be dead, or without pro-

perty, or have absconded, the creditor cannot be indemnified according

to the old system of the co-hong so called . And if citizens of the United Debts due by

States be indebted to subjects of China, the latter may seek redress in citizens of U.S.

the same way through the consul, but without any responsibility for the tCohisnuabj. ects of debt on the part of the United States.

ARTICLE XVII.
Citizens of the United States residing or sojourning at any of the Citizens of ports open to foreign commerce, shall enjoy all proper accommodation U. S. residing in obtaining houses and places of business, or in hiring sites from the at any of the five inhabitants on which to construct houses and places of business, and ptaarintsp,rmoapeyr abcalso hospitals, churches and cemeteries. The local authorities of the commodations , two Governments shall select in concert the sites for the foregoing ob- & c. jects, having due regard to the feelings of the people in the location thereof: and the parties interested will fix the rent by mutual agreement, the proprietors on the one hand not demanding any exorbitant price, nor the merchants on the other unreasonably insisting on particu-

696

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

lar spots, but each conducting with justice and moderation. And any

desecration of said cemeteries by subjects of China shall be severely

punished according to law.

At places of

At the places of anchorage of the vessels of the United States, the

anchorage, & c. citizens of the United States, merchants, seamen, or others sojourning

merchants may pass and repass in the imme.
diate vicinity. No excursions
into the coun.
try, & c.
Preservation of the public
peace.

there, may pass and repass in the immediate neighbourhood ; but they shall not at their pleasure make excursions into the country among the villages at large, nor shall they repair to public marts for the purpose of disposing of goods unlawfully and in fraud of the revenue.
And, in order to the preservation of the public peace, the local officers of government at each of the five ports, shall, in concert with the consuls, define the limits beyond which it shall not be lawful for citizens of the United States to go.

ARTICLE XVIII .

Persons may It shall be lawful for the officers or citizens of the United States to

be employed to teach languages in any part of the empire . Ci. tizens of U. S. may buy all manner of
books.

employ scholars and people of any part of China without distinction of persons, to teach any of the languages of the empire, and to assist in literary labors ; and the persons so employed shall not, for that cause, be subject to any injury on the part either of the government or ofindividuals and it shall in like manner be lawful for citizens of the United
States to purchase all manner of books in China.

ARTICLE XIX .

Citizens of

All citizens of the United States in China, peaceably attending to

U.S. to be specially protected bythe local authorities.
Riots and attacks on their houses to be
prevented by military force, and rioters punished .

their affairs, being placed on a common footing of amity and goodwill with subjects of China, shall receive and enjoy, for themselves and every thing appertaining to them, the special protection of the local authorities of Government, who shall defend them from all insult or injury of any sort on the part of the Chinese. If their dwellings or property be threatened or attacked by mobs , incendiaries, or other violent or lawless persons, the local officers, on requisition of the consul, will immediately despatch a military force to disperse the rioters, and will apprehend the guilty individuals, and punish them with the utmost rigor of the law.

ARTICLE XX.

Re-exportation Citizens of the United States who may have imported merchandize

oefdgionotdosCihmipnoart
by citizens of the U. S. to

into any of the free ports of China, and paid the duty thereon, if they desire to re-export the same, in part or in whole, to any other of the said ports, shall be entitled to make application , through their consul, to

other permitted the superintendant of Customs, who, in order to prevent frauds on the
ports. revenue, shall cause examination to be made by suitable officers to see

that the duties paid on such goods, as entered on the custom-house

books , correspond with the representation made, and that the goods

remain with their original marks unchanged, and shall then make a me-

morandum in the port-clearance, of the goods, and the amount of duties paid on the same, and deliver the same to the merchant ; and shall also

certify the facts to the officers of customs of the other ports. All which

being done, on the arrival in port of the vessel in which the goods are

laden, and every thing being found on examination there to correspond ,

Frauds onthe government of China.

she shall be permitted to break bulk and land the said goods, without being subject to the payment of any additional duty thereon . But if,
on such examination , the superintendent of customs shall detect any fraud on the revenue in the case , then the goods shall be subject to for feiture and confiscation to the Chinese Government.

Criminal acts
by subjects of China to be

ARTICLE XXI. Subjects of China who may be guilty of any criminal act towards citizens of the United States, shall be arrested and punished by the Chinese autho-

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

597

rities according to the laws of China : and citizens of the United States, punished bythe who may commit any crime in China, shall be subject to be tried and laCwitsiozefnCshoifna.

punished only by the consul, or other public functionary of the United U.S. commit-

States, thereto authorized according to the laws of the United States. ting crimes, to

And in order to the prevention of all controversy and disaffection, justice be punished by

shall be equitably and impartially administered on both sides. ARTICLE XXII.

cording to the laws of U. S.

Relations of peace and amity between the United States and China If China should being established by this treaty, and the vessels of the United States be at war, &c.,

being admitted to trade freely to and from the five ports of China open to foreign commerce, it is further agreed that in case at any time hereafter, China should be at war with any foreign nation whatever, and for
that cause should exclude such nation from entering her ports, still the

trade of the pUo.rSt.s ntoottthoe bfieve molested. Transportation

vessels of the United States shall not the less continue to pursue their commerce in freedom and security, and to transport goods to and from the ports of the belligerent parties, full respect being paid to the neutrality of the flag of the United States : Provided that the said flag shall not protect vessels engaged in the transportation of officers or soldiers

offrogmootdhse tpooratnsd of the bellige rents to be allPorwoevdi,s&o. c.

in the enemy's service ; nor shall said flag be fraudulently used to enable

the enemy's ships with their cargoes to enter the ports of China ; but

all such vessels so offending shall be subject to forfeiture and confiscation to the Chinese Government.

ARTICLE XXIII.

The consuls of the United States at each of the five ports open to foreign trade, shall make annually to the respective Governors-general thereof, a detailed report of the number of vessels belonging to the United States which have entered and left said ports during the year, and of the amount and value of goods imported or exported in said vessels, for transmission to and inspection of the Board of Revenue.

Consuls of U. S. to make rtertaudernosfoUf.tSh.e with the five ports, &c.

ARTICLE XXIV.
If citizens of the United States have special occasion to address any Communicacommunication to the Chinese local officers of Government, they shall tions with the submit the same to their consul , or other officer, to determine if the local officers of language be proper and respectful, and the matter just and right ; in bCehimnaad,eh.owto which event he shall transmit the same to the appropriate authorities for their consideration and action in the premises. In like manner, if Communicasubjects of China have special occasion to address the consul of the tions from subUnited States, they shall submit the communication to the local autho- jheoctws toofbCehina, rities of their own Government, to determine if the language be respect- made. ful and proper, and the matter just and right ; in which case the said authorities will transmit the same to the consul, or other officer, for his consideration and action in the premises. And if controversies arise Settlement of between citizens of the United States and subjects of China, which controversies. cannot be amicably settled otherwise, the same shall be examined and decided conformably to justice and equity by the public officers of the two nations acting in conjunction.

ARTICLE XXV.

All questions in regard to rights, whether of property or person, arising between citizens of the United States in China, shall be subject to the jurisdiction and regulated by the authorities of their own Government. And all controversies occurring in China between citizens of
the United States and the subjects of any other Government, shall be regulated by the treaties existing between the United States and such Governments, respectively, without interference on the part of China.

Questions be tween citizens of U. S. in Chi
nreag,uhlaotwedt.o be Between citi
zens of U. S. and others.

598

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

ARTICLE XXVI.

Merchant ves- Merchant vessels of the United States lying in the waters of the five

sels of U. S. in ports of China open to foreign commerce, will be under the jurisdiction tbheeufnidveerpotrhtesjut-o of the officers of their own Government ; who, with the masters and risdiction of the owners thereof, will manage the same without control on the part of

officers of their China. For injuries done to the citizens or the commerce of the government.
Robbers and United States by any foreign power, the Chinese Government will not

pirates, & c. to hold itself bound to make reparation. But if the merchant-vessels of

be arrested and the United States, while within the waters over which the Chinese

pCuhniinsehseedgboyv-the Government exercises jurisdiction , be plundered by robbers or pirates,

vernment.

then the Chinese local authorities, civil and military, on receiving infor-

mation thereof, will arrest the said robbers or pirates, and punish them

Disposition of according to law, and will cause all the property which can be reco-

the property recovered.

vered, to be placed in the hands of the nearest consul , or other officer

of the United States, to be by him restored to the true owner. But if,

by reason of the extent of territory and numerous population of China,

it should, in any case, happen that the robbers cannot be apprehended, or the property only in part recovered, then the law will take its course

in regard to the local authorities, but the Chinese Government will not

make indemnity for the goods lost.

ARTICLE XXVII.

Shipwrecks.

If any vessel of the United States shall be wrecked or stranded on the

coast of China, and be subjected to plunder or other damage, the proper

officers of Government on receiving information of the fact, will imme-

diately adopt measures for their relief and security ; and the persons on

board shall receive friendly treatment, and be enabled at once to repair

Vessels forced to the most convenient of the free ports, and shall enjoy all facilities for into any other obtaining supplies of provisions and water. And if a vessel shall be

than one of the forced in whatever way to take refuge in any port other than one of the

five ports, shall

receive friendly free ports, then in like manner the persons on board shall receive

treatment.

friendly treatment, and the means of safety and security.

ARTICLE XXVIII.

Citizens or ves- Citizens ofthe United States, their vessels and property, shall not be sels of U.S. not subject to any embargo ; nor shall they be seized or forcibly detained teombbaersguobj. ect to for any pretense of the public service ; but they shall be suffered to
prosecute their commerce in quiet, and without molestation or embarrassment.
ARTICLE XXIX.

Mutineers and The local authorities of the Chinese Government will cause to be deserters to be apprehended all mutineers or deserters from on board the vessels of the apprehended United States in China, and will deliver them up to the consuls or other

aUn.dSd.ecloinvesruelds.to officers for punishment. And if criminals, subjects of China, take refuge in the houses or on board the vessels of citizens of the United

States, they shall not be harbored or concealed , but shall be delivered

up to justice, on due requisition by the Chinese local officers addressed

to those of the United States.

Merchants, & c . of U. S. to be under the
superintendence of the offcers of their
government.

The merchants, seamen , and other citizens of the United States shall
be under the superintendance of the appropriate officers of their government. If individuals of either nation commit acts of violence and disorder, use arms to the injury of others, or create disturbances endangering life, the officers of the two governments will exert themselves to enforce order, and to maintain the public peace, by doing impartial

justice in the premises.

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

599

ARTICLE XXX.

The superior authorities of the United States and of China, in corre- Correspond. sponding together, shall do so in terms of equality, and in the form ence between of mutual communication, (cháu hwui. ) The consuls, and the local tghoeverresnpmeecnttisve officers, civil and military, in corresponding together, shall likewise and their offi employ the style and form of mutual communication , (cháu hwui. ) tcewrese,nainnddibvie.. When inferior officers of the one government address superior officers duals and their of the other, they shall do so in the style and form of memorial, (shin government. chin.) Private individuals, in addressing superior officers, shall employ the style of petition, (pin ching. ) In no case shall any terms or style be suffered which shall be offensive or disrespectful to either party. And
it is agreed that no presents, under any pretext or form whatever, shall ever be demanded of the United States by China, or of China by the United States.
ARTICLE XXXI.
Communications from the government of the United States to the Transmission court of China shall be transmitted through the medium of the Imperial otifocnso.mmunica Commissioner charged with the superintendence of the concerns of foreign nations with China, or through the Governor-general of the Liang Kwang, that of Min and Cheh, or that of the Liang Kiang.

ARTICLE XXXII.

Whenever ships of war of the United States, in cruizing for the protection of the commerce of their country, shall arrive at any of the ports of China, the commanders of said ships and the superior local authorities of Government, shall hold intercourse together in terms of equality and courtesy, in token of the friendly relations of their respective nations. And the said ships of war shall enjoy all suitable facilities on
the part of the Chinese Government in the purchase of provisions, procuring water, and making repairs if occasion require.

Intercourse wwiatrh. ships of

ARTICLE XXXIII.

Citizens ofthe United States, who shall attempt to trade clandestinely Clandestine with such of the ports of China as are not open to foreign commerce, tradeprohibited.
or who shall trade in opium or any other contraband article of merchandize, shall be subject to be dealt with by the Chinese Government , without being entitled to any countenance or protection from that of the United States ; and the United States will take measures to prevent
their flag from being abused by the subjects of other nations, as a cover for the violation of the laws of the Empire.

ARTICLE XXXIV.

When the present convention shall have been definitively concluded, it shall be obligatory on both Powers, and its provisions shall not be altered without grave cause ; but , inasmuch as the circumstances of the several ports of China open to foreign commerce are different, experience may show that inconsiderable modifications are requisite in those
parts which relate to commerce and navigation : in which case, the two Governments will, at the expiration of twelve years from the date of said convention , treat amicably concerning the same, by the means of suitable persons appointed to conduct such negotiation.
And when ratified , this Treaty shall be faithfully observed in all its parts by the United States and China, and by every citizen and subject of each. And no individual State of the United States can appoint or
send a minister to China to call in question the provisions of the same. The present treaty of peace, amity, and commerce, shall be ratified
and approved by the President of the United States, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the August Sovereign

At the expirattihoentowfo12goyveearrns., mentsmay treat on matters wquhiircehalmtaeryatrieo-n.
The treaty. when ratified, to be faithfully observed, &c.
Ratifications to bwietheixncheaniggehd t months.

600

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

of the Ta Tsing Empire, and the ratifications shall be exchanged, within eighteen months from the date of the signature thereof, or sooner if possible.

In faith whereof, We, the respective Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, and of the Ta Tsing Empire, as aforesaid, have signed and sealed these presents.

Done at Wang Hiya, this third day of July, in the year of our Lord Jesus Christ, one thousand eight hundred and forty-four ; and of Taoukwang, the twenty-fourth year, fifth month, and eighteenth day.

TSIYENG, (in Manchu,) (L. S.)

C. CUSHING,

(L. S.)

The tariff ofduties to be levied on imported and exported merchandize at the five ports.
The duties which it is agreed shall be paid upon goods imported and exported by the United States, at the Custom Houses of Canton , Amoy, Fuchow, Ningpo, and Shanghai, are as follows ; the articles being arranged in classes, viz.

EXPORTS .

CLASS 1. - Alum, oils, &c.

Taels, Mace. Craecnhdsa

Alum, i. e. white alum, formerly white alum and blue stone,

per 100 catties .

..... 01 0

Anniseed oil, not formerly contained in the tariff, per 100

catties .....

500

Cassia oil, not formerly contained in the tariff, per 100

catties ..

500

CLASS 2.- Tea, spices, &c.
Tea, formerly divided into fine and native black , and fine and native green teas, per 100 catties
Anniseed Star, per 100 catties Musk, each catty .

555

250

CLASS 3.- Drugs.

Capoor Cutchery, per 100 catties ... Camphor, per 100 catties ... Arsenic, under different Chinese names, per 100 catties .. Cassia, per 100 catties ....

Cassia buds, not formerly contained in the tariff, per 100 catties ....

China Root, per 100 catties

Cubebs, not formerly in tariff, per 100 catties .

Galingal, per 100 catties ....

Hartall ,

do.

Rhubarb,

do.

Turmeric, do.

1000000

030 150 075 075
00 020
50 10 050 00 020

CLASS 4. -- Sundries.
Bangles, not formerly in the tariff, per 100 catties .... Bamboo screens and Bamboo ware, do.

050 02 0

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

601

Taels.

Mace.

Canda reelis

Corals, native, or false corals, not formerly in the tariff,

per 100 catties ..

050

Crackers, and fire-works formerly classed as Rockets, per

100 catties ....

075

Fans (feather fans, & c. ) , not formerly in the tariff, per 100

catties ...

....... 100

Glass ; glass ware of all kinds, formerly classed as native crystal ware, per 100 catties .
Glass beads, or false pearls, per 100 catties Kittisols, or paper umbrellas, per 100 catties ...

050 050 050

0000

Marble, marble slabs, not formerly in the tariff, per 100

catties ....

02

Rice paper pictures, per 100 catties

01

Paper fans, per 100 catties

05

Pearls (false), not formerly in the tariff, per 100 catties ... 0 5 0

CLASS 5. - · Painters' stores , &c.

1200003

Brass leaf, per 100 catties ....

Gamboge,

do.

Red lead,

do.

Glue, as fish glue, cowhide glue, & c. , per 100 catties Paper, stationery, per 100 catties .. Til foil, per 100 catties . Vermillion do.

Paintings (large paintings) , formerly divided into large and small paintings, each ....
White lead, per 100 catties ..

17 00

50 00 050 50 50 050 300
025

05

CLASS 6. -Wares of various kinds.

Bone and Horn ware, per 100 catties

..... 100

China ware, fine and coarse, formerly classed as fine , native, coarse, and middling, per 100 catties ..
Copper ware and pewter ware, per 100 catties Manufactures of wood, furniture, & c. , per 100 catties ....

050 050 0 20

Ivory ware, all carved ivory work included, formerly divide.d

51101

into ivory and ivory carvings, per 100 catties

500

Lacquered ware, per 100 catties ... Mother of pearl ware, per 100 catties Rattan ware, rattan and bamboo work, per 100 catties Sandal-wood ware, per 100 catties ....

00 00 020 00

Gold and silver ware, formerly divided into gold ware and

silver ware, per 100 catties ...

10 0 0

Tortoise-shell ware, per 100 catties

10 0 0

Leather trunks and boxes, per 100 catties .

020

CLASS 7. - Canes, &c.

Canes or walking sticks of all kinds, per 1000 pieces .... 050

CLASS 8. · Articles of Clothing.

Wearing apparel, whether of cotton, woollen , or silk, for-

merly divided into cotton clothing, woollen do. , silk and

satin do. , and velvet, per 100 catties

...

Boots and shoes , whether of leather, satin, or otherwise,

per 100 catties ...

VOL. VIIL 76



05 0 020

602

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

CLASS 9.- Fabrics of Hemp, &c.

Taels.

Mace.

Canda reens.

Grass-cloth, and all cloths of hemp or linen , per 100 catties, Nankeen, and all cloths of cotton, formerly not in the
tariff, per 100 catties

10 0 100

CLASS 10. - Silk, fabrics of Silk, &c.

Raw silk of any province, per 100 catties

Coarse or refuse silk,

do.

Organzine, of all kinds,

do.

Silk ribbon and thread,

do.

10 0 0 200 10 0 0 10 0 0

Silk and satin fabrics of all kinds, as crape, lutestring,

& c. , & c. , formerly classed as silks and satins, per 100

catties ...

12 0 0

Silk and Cotton mixed fabrics, per 100 catties .

300

Heretofore a further charge per piece has been levied : the

whole duty is now to be paid in one sum and the further

charge is abolished.

CLASS 11. - Carpeting, matting, &c.
Mats of all kinds, as of straw, rattan , bamboo, & c. & c. per 100 catties .

020

CLASS 12. - Preserves, &c.

0000

Preserved Ginger and fruits of all kinds, per 100 catties .. Soy, per 100 catties ....

Sugar, white and brown, per 100 catties

Sugar candy, all kinds,

do.

Tobacco, prepared and unprepared, & c. , of all kinds, per 100 catties

50 40 025 35
0 20

CLASS 13. Unenumerated Articles.
All articles which it has not been practicable to enumerate herein specifically are to be charged a duty of five per cent. ad valorem. CLASS 14.
Gold and silver coin, and gold and silver, duty free.
CLASS 15.

Bricks, tiles, and building materials, duty free.

IMPORTS.

CLASS 1.-Wax, Saltpetre, &c.

Wax, foreign, as beeswax, also called tile wax, per 100 catties ...
Oil of Rose Mallows, per 100 catties . Saltpetre, foreign , per 100 catties .. This article is only allowed to be sold to the Government
merchants. Formerly this regulation did not exist. Soaps, foreign, as perfumed soap, per 100 catties ...

100 1 00 0 30
05 0

CLASS 2. -Spices and perfumes.
Gum Benzoin and oil of Benzoin , per 100 catties .... Sandal wood, per 100 catties . Pepper, black, do.

00 050
40

100

TREATY WITH CHINA . 1844 .

603

Taels.

Mace.

Can' TOLLA

All other articles of this class, not specifically mentioned

herein, to pay a duty of ten per cent. ad valorem .

Perfumery, five per cent. ad valorem.

CLASS 3.- Drugs.

Asafoetida, per 100 catties ......

1 00

Camphor, superior quality, i. e. pure, formerly classed as

good and inferior, per catty ..

100

Do. inferior quality or refuse, formerly uncleaned camphor,

0000550 0101000

per catty ....

05

Cloves, superior quality, picked, per 100 catties ..

15

Do. inferior do. (Mother cloves ) per 100 catties .

5

Cow Bezoar, per catty ....

00

Cutch, per 100 catties .

030

Gambier, per 100 catties .

1

Areca nut, per 100 catties ..

1

Ginseng, foreign, superior quality, & c., per 100 catties ... 38 0 0

Do. inferior quality, &c., per 100 catties .....

350

Of every hundred catties of foreign ginseng of whatever

sort, one fifth part is to be considered as of superior quality and four fifths of inferior quality. Gum olibanum, per 100 catties .. Myrrh, per 100 catties ..... Mace, or flower of Nutmeg, per 100 catties .. Quicksilver, per 100 catties .... Nutmegs, first quality, per 100 catties ... Do. second quality, or coarse, per 100 catties . Putchuck, per 100 catties ...... Rhinoceros horns, per 100 catties .

05 0 050 100 300 200 100 075 300

CLASS 4. - Sundries. Flints, per 100 catties ....... Mother of pearl shells, per 100 catties .

005 020

CLASS 5.- Dried Meats.
Bird's nests, 1st quality mandarin , per 100 catties ..... Do. 2d do. ordinary, per 100 catties .... Do. 3d do. with feathers, per 100 catties ..
Bicho de Mar, 1st quality black, per 100 catties ... Do. 2d. do. white, per 100 catties ....
Shark's fins, 1st quality white, per 100 catties ... Do. 2d. do. black, per 100 catties ....
Stock fish, called dried fish, per 100 catties .... Fish maws, not formerly in tariff, per 100 catties .
CLASS 6.-Painters' Stores.
Cochineal, per 100 catties .... Smalts, per 100 catties . Sapan wood, per 100 catties .

500 25 0 05 0 080 020 100 050 040 150
500 400 01 0

CLASS 7.- Woods, Canes, &c.
Rattans, per 100 catties .... Ebony, per 100 catties .... All other imported wood, as red wood, satin wood, yellow
wood, not specifically enumerated , to pay a duty of ten per cent. ad valorem.

020 015

604

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

CLASS 8.- Clocks, Watches, &c.

Taels. Mac

Canda reens

Clocks. Watches.
Telescopes. Glass panes, and crystal ware of all kinds Writing desks. Dressing cases. Jewelry of gold and silver. Cutlery, swords, & c. All the foregoing and any other miscellaneous articles of the
same description, 5 per cent. ad valorem.

CLASS 9. Gold and silver bullion , duty free.

CLASS 10.

Cotton, fabrics of cotton and canvass, from 75 to 100 chih long, and one chih 7 tsun to 2 chih 2 tsun wide, per piece
Cotton, allowing 5 per cent. for tare, per 100 catties .... Long white cloths 75 to 100 chih long, and 2 chih 2 tsun
to 2 chih 6 tsun wide, formerly divided into superior and inferior fine cotton cloth, per piece ..... Cambrics and muslins from 50 to 60 chih long, and 2 chih 9 tsun to 3 chih 3 tsun wide, per piece.... Cottons, grey or unbleached domestic, and from 75 to 100 chih long, and 2 chih to 2 chih 9 tsun wide, formerly classed as coarse long cloths, per piece ... Twilled cottons, grey, same dimensions, per piece .... Chintz and prints of all kinds, from 60 to 75 chih long, and from 2 chih 9 tsun to 3 chih 3 tsun wide, formerly called ornamented or flower cloths, per piece ..
Cotton yarn, or cotton thread, per 100 catties .... Linen, fine, not formerly in the tariff, from 50 to 75 chih
long, and 1 chih 9 tsun to 2 chih 2 tsun wide, per piece Bunting, per chang .... All other imported articles of this class, as ginghams, puli-
cats, dyed cottons, velveteens , silk and cotton mixtures, and mixtures of linen and cotton, & c. & c., 5 per cent. ad valorem.

050 040
015 015
01 0 010
020 1 00
05 0 0 0 11

067390 000000

CLASS 11. - Fabrics of silk, woollen, &c.

Handkerchiefs, large, above 2 chih 6 tsun, each .....

Do.

small, under 2 chih 6 tsun, do.

Gold and silver thread, superior or real, per catty .

Do. do.

inferior, or imitation, per catty ...

Broadcloth, Spanish stripe, & c. , from 3 chih 6 tsun to 4 chih 6 tsun wide, per chang ...
Narrow cloths, as long ells, cassimeres, & c. , formerly classed as narrow woollens, per chang .
Camlets (Dutch), per chang....... Do. per chang ....
Imitation camlets, or bombazettes, per chang .... ·

Woollen yarn, per 100 catties ... Blankets, each .... All other fabrics of wool , or of mixed wool and cotton , wool
and silk, & c ., 5 per cent. ad valorem .

0011 001 013 0 03
015
0 015 0 0 0 31 30 01

TREATY WITH CHINA. 1844.

605

CLASS 12. -Wines, &c.

Wine and beer, in quart bottles, per 100 ....

do.

in pint do. do.

do.

in cask, per 100 catties.

Taels,

Mace.

Canda. reeus,

1 00

050 050

CLASS 13.- Metals.

Copper, foreign, in pigs, & c. , per 100 catties .... Do. wrought, as sheets, rods, & c. , per 100 catties ....
Iron, foreign, unmanufactured, as in pigs, per 100 catties Do. manufactured, as in bars, rods, & c. , per 100 catties
Lead, foreign, in pigs, or manufactured, per 100 catties ... Steel, foreign, of every kind, per 100 catties ... Tin, foreign, per 100 catties ... Tin plates, formerly not in the tariff, per 100 catties ... Spelter is only permitted to be sold to government mer-
chants. All unenumerated metals, as zinc, yellow copper, & c. , 10
per cent. ad valorem.

100 50
010
015 028 040 100 040

CLASS 14. - Jewelry.
Cornelians, per 100 stones .... Cornelian beads, per 100 catties .

050 10 0 0

CLASS 15. -Skins, teeth, horns, &c.

Bullock's and buffalo horns, per 100 catties ... Cow and ox hides, tanned and untanned , per 100 catties .. Sea otter skins, each ..... Fox skins, large, each
Do. small , do.

Tiger, Leopard, and martin skins, each ....

Land otter, Racoon, and shark's skins, per 100 ....

Beaver skins, per 100 ..

Hare, rabbit, and ermine skins, per 100 .

Sea-horse teeth, per 100 catties ...

Elephant's teeth, 1st quality, whole, per 100 catties .

2d do. broken,

do.

200 050 15 01 0 0 71 01 200 500 050 20 40 200

090575000000

CLASS 16. -Unenumerated.
All new goods which it has not been practicable to enumerate herein, a duty of 5 per cent. ad valorem .
CLASS 17.
Rice and other grains, duty free. Contraband.-Opium .
Shipping dues.- These have been hitherto charged on the measurement of the ship's length and breadth, at so much per chang, but it is now agreed to alter the system and charge according to the registered statement of the number of tons of the ship's burden. On each ton (reckoned equal to the cubic contents of 122 tows) , a shipping charge of five mace is to be levied ; and all the old charges of measurement, entrance and port-clearance fees, daily and monthly fees, & c. , are abolished.

CUSHING, (L. S.)

TSIYENG, (L. s.)

3A2

TREATY OF COMMERCE AND NAVIGATION

Nov. 10, 1845. Ratifications exchanged, March 30, 1846. Proclamation
ooff tthhee PUr.esSi.d,ent March 31 , 1846 .

Between the United States of America and his Majesty the
King of the Belgians.
THE United States of America on the one part, and his Majesty the King of the Belgians on the other part, wishing to regulate in a formal manner their reciprocal relations of commerce and navigation, and further to strengthen, through the development of their interests respectively, the bonds of friendship and good understanding so happily established between the governments and people of the two countries ; and desiring, with this view, to conclude, by common agreement, a treaty establishing conditions equally advantageous to the commerce and navigation of both states, have, to that effect, appointed as their plenipotentiaries, namely : the President of the United States, Thomas G. Clemson, Chargé d'affaires of the United States of America to his Majesty the King of the Belgians ; and his Majesty the King of the Belgians, M. Adolphe Dechamps, officer of the Order of Leopold , knight of the Order of the Red Eagle of the first class, grand cross of the Order of St. Michel of Bavaria , his minister for foreign affairs, a member of the Chamber of Representants, who, after having communicated to each other their full powers, ascertained to be in good and proper form , have agreed and concluded the following articles :

ARTICLE I.

Freedom of commerce between the two countries.
The same du
ties , taxes, &c. to be paid, as are paid by citi zens of either country, & c.

There shall be full and entire freedom of commerce and navigation between the inhabitants of the two countries ; and the same security and protection which is enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of each country, shall be guarantied on both sides. The said inhabitants, whether established or temporarily residing within any ports, cities, or places whatever, of the two countries, shall not, on account of their commerce or industry, pay any other or higher duties , taxes, or imposts, than those which shall be levied on citizens or subjects of the country in which they may be ; and the privileges, immunities, and other favors , with

regard to commerce or industry, enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of one of the two states, shall be common to those of the other.

ARTICLE II.

Belgian vessels Belgian vessels, whether coming from a Belgian or a foreign port,

psoharltls opfatyheinU.tSh.e shall not pay, either on entering or leaving the ports of the United

no other or

States, whatever may be their destination , any other or higher duties of

higher duties of tonnage, pilotage, anchorage , buoys, light-houses , clearance, brokerage, tonnage, & c . or generally other charges whatsoever, than are required from vessels of

the United States in similar cases. This provision extends, not only to

duties levied for the benefit of the state, but also to those levied for the

benefit of provinces, cities, countries, districts, townships, corporations,

or any other division or jurisdiction , whatever may be its designation .

ARTICLE III.

Vessels of U.S. Reciprocally, vessels of the United States, whether coming from a

shall pay in the ports of Bel-

port of said States, or from a foreign port, shall not pay, either on

gum no other entering or leaving the ports of Belgium, whatever may be their desti-

or higher duties nation , any other or higher duties of tonnage, pilotage, anchorage,

of tonnage, &c buoys, light-houses, clearance, brokerage, or generally other charges (606 )

TRAITE DE COMMERCE ET DE NAVIGATION
Entre sa Majesté le Roi des Belges et les Etats- Unis
d'Amérique.
SA Majesté le Roi des Belges d'une part, et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique d'autre part, voulant régler d'une manière formelle les relations réciproques de commerce et de navigation , et fortifier de plus en plus, par le développement des intérêts respectifs, les liens d'amitié et de bonne intelligence si heureusement établis entre les deux gouvernements et les deux peuples ; désirant, dans cet but, arrêter, de commun accord, un traité stipulant des conditions également avantageuses au commerce et à la navigation des deux états, ont, à cet effet, nommé pour leurs plenipotentiaires, savoir : Sa Majesté le Roi des Belges, le sieur Adolphe Dechamps, officiere de l'Ordre de Léopold, chevalier de l'Ordre de l'Aigle Rouge de première classe, Grand croix de l'Ordre de St. Michel de Bavière, Ministre des Affaires Etrangères, Membre de la Chambre des Représentants ; et Son Excellence le Président des EtatsUnis, le sieur Thomas G. Clemson, chargé d'affaires des Etats-Unis d'Amérique près sa Majesté le Roi des Belges ; lesquels après s'ètre communiqué leurs pleins pouvoirs, trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont arrêté et conclu les articles suivants :
ARTICLE 1.
Il y aura pleine et entière liberté de commerce et de navigation entre les habitans des deux pays, et la même sécurité et protection dont jouissent les nationaux, seront garanties des deux parts. Ces habitans ne payeront point, à raison de leur commerce ou de leur industrie, dans les ports, villes, ou lieux quelconques des deux états, soit qu'ils s'y établissent, scit qu'ils y résident temporairement, des droits, taxes, ou impôts autre ou plus élévés que ceux qui se percevront sur les nationaux ; et les privilèges, immunités, et autres faveurs dont jouissent en matière de commerce ou d'industrie les citoyens ou sujets de l'un des deux états. seront communs à ceux de l'autre.
ARTICLE 2.
Les navires Belges venant d'un port Belge ou d'un port étranger, ne payeront point à leur entrée dans les ports des Etats-Unis, ou à leur sortie, quelle que soit leur destination , d'autres ni de plus forts droits de tonnage, de pilotage, d'ancrage, de balisage, de feux et de fanaux, d'expédition et de courtage, ni généralement d'autres charges que celles exigées des bâtimens de l'Union dans les mêmes cas. Ce qui précède s'entend, non seulement des droits perçus au profit de l'état , mais encore de tous droits perçus au profit des provinces, villes, arrondissemens, communes, juridictions, corporations, etc. , sous quelque terme qu'elles puissent étre designées. ARTICLE 3.
Réciproquement , les navires des Etats-Unis, venant d'un port national ou d'un port étranger, ne payeront point, à leur entrée dans les ports de Belgique ou à leur sortie , quelle que soit leur destination , d'autres ni de plus fort droits de tonnage, de pilotage, d'ancrage, de balisage, de feux et de fanaux, d'expedition et de courtage, ni généralement d'autres
(007)

608

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. 1845.

whatever, than are required from Belgian vessels in similar cases . This provision extends not only to duties levied for the benefit of the state, but also to those levied for the benefit of provinces, cities, countries
districts, townships, corporations, or any other division or jurisdiction, whatever may be its designation.

ARTICLE IV.

Restitution
guarantied of certain duties levied by the Netherlands.

The restitution by Belgium of the duty levied by the government of the Netherlands on the navigation of the Scheldt, in virtue of the third paragraph of the ninth article of the treaty of April nineteenth, eighteen hundred and thirty-nine, is guarantied to the vessels of the United States.
ARTICLE V.

Steam vessels to be exempt from duties of tonnage, &c.

Steam vessels of the United States and of Belgium, engaged in
regular navigation between the United States and Belgium, shall be exempt in both countries from the payment of duties of tonnage, anchorage, buoys, and light-houses.

ARTICLE VI.

Coasting trade As regards the coasting trade between the ports of either country,
between the the vessels of the two nations shall be treated on both sides on the same
ports of either footing with the vessels of the most favored nations.
country .

ARTICLE VII.

Articles proceeding from
tBheelgsoiiulm, ,&toc.poafy no other duties, & c.
Productions of U. S. imported into Belgium in vessels of U. S., to pay no other duties, & c.

Articles of every description, whether proceeding from the soil, industry, or warehouses of Belgium, directly imported therefrom, into the ports of the United States, in Belgian vessels, shall pay no other or higher duties of import than if they were imported under the flag of said States.
And, reciprocally, articles of every description directly imported into Belgium from the United States, under the flag of the said States, shall pay no other or higher duties than if they were imported under the
Belgian flag. It is well understood :

1st. That the goods shall have been really put on board in the ports from which they are declared respectively to come.

2d. That a putting-in at an intermediate port, produced by uncontrollable circumstances, duly proved , does not occasion the forfeiture of

the advantage allowed to direct importation.

ARTICLE VIII.

Articles im-
ported into U.S. in Belgian vessels, to pay no other duties
than ifthey had been imported, & c.
Reciprocal as to U. S.

Articles of every description , imported into the United States from other countries than Belgium , under the Belgian flag, shall pay no other or higher duties whatsoever, than if they had been imported under the flag of the most favored foreign nation, other than the flag of the country from which the importation is made. And , reciprocally, articles of every description , imported under the flag of the United States into Belgium, from other countries than the United States, shall pay no other or higher duties whatsoever, than if they had been imported under the flag of the foreign nation most favored , other than that of the country from which the importation is made.

Articles exported by Belgian or Ú. S.
pvoerstsselosfferiotmhterhe
country, to pay no other duties, & c.

ARTICLE IX.
Articles of every description , exported by Belgian vessels, or by those of the United States of America, from the ports of either country to any country whatsoever, shall be subjected to no other duties or formalities than such as are required for exportation under the flag of the country where the shipment is made.

TREATY WITH BELGIUM . 1845.

609

caarges, qui celles exigées des bâtimens Belges dans les mêmes cas. Ce qui précede s'entend non seulement des droits perçus au profit de l'état, mais encore de tous droits perçus au profit des provinces, villes, arrondissemens, communes, juridictions, corporations, etc. , sous quelque terme qu'elles puissent étre désignées.
ARTICLE 4.
Le remboursement par la Belgique du droit perçu sur la navigation de l'Escaut par le gouvernement des Pays-Bas, en vertu du paragraphe troisième de l'article neuf du traité du dix-neuf Avril, mil huit cent rente-neuf, est garanti aux navires des Etats-Unis.

ARTICLE 5.
Les bateaux à vapeur Belges et des Etats-Unis faisant un service régulier de navigation entre la Belgique et les Etats-Unis, seront exemptés, dans l'un et l'autre pays, du paiement des droits de tonnage, d'ancrage, de balisage, de feux et de fanaux .
ARTICLE 6. En ce qui concerne l'exercice de cabotage, (commerce de port à port, ) les navires des deux nations seront traités, de part et d'autre, sur le même pied que les navires des nations les plus favorisées.

ARTICLE 7.
Les objets de toute nature provenant soit du sol, soit de l'industrie, soit des entrepôts de Belgique, importés en droiture de Belgique par navires Belges, dans les ports des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, ne paieront d'autres ni de plus forts droits d'entrée que s'ils étaient importés en droiture sous le pavillon des dits Etats.
Et réciproquement, les objets de toute nature importés en droiture en Belgique des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, sous pavillon de ces Etats , n'acquitteront d'autres ni de plus forts droits que s'ils étaient importés en droiture sous pavillon Belge.
Il est bien entendu :
1 °. Que les marchandises devront avoir été rëellement chargées dans les ports d'où elles auront été déclarés respectivement provenir.
2°. Que la relàche forcée dans les ports intermédiaires pour des causes de force majeure dûment justifiée, ne fait pas perdre le benéfice de l'importation en droiture.

ARTICLE 8.
Les objets de toute nature importés aux Etats-Unis d'ailleurs que de Belgique, sous pavillon Belge, ne payeront d'autres ni de plus forts droits quelconques, que si l'importation était effectuée sous le pavillon de la nation étrangère la plus favorisée, autre que le pavillon du pays même d'ou l'importation a lieu. Et réciproquement, les objets de toute nature, importés sous pavillon des Etats-Unis en Belgique, d'ailleurs que des Etats-Unis, ne paieront d'autres ni de plus forts droits quelconques,. que si l'importation était effectuée sous le pavillon de la nation étrangère la plus favorisée, autre que celui du pays même d'où l'importation a lieu.

ARTICLE 9.

Les objets de toute nature quelconque exportés par navires Belges ou

par ceux des Etats-Unis d'Amérique des ports de l'un ou de l'autre de ces états vers quelque pays que ce soit, ne seront assujettis à des droits ou à des formalités autres que ceux exigés pour l'exportation par pavillon national.

VOL. VIII.

77

610

TREATY WITH BELGIUM . 1845.

ARTICLE X.

Premiums, drawbacks , &c. allowed upon
goods imported directly from one of the two
countries, &c.

All premiums, drawbacks, or other favors of like nature, which may be allowed in the states of either of the contracting parties, upon goods
imported or exported in national vessels, shall be likewise, and in the same manner, allowed upon goods imported directly from one of the two countries, by its vessels, into the other, or exported from one of the two countries, by the vessels of the other, to any destination whatsoever.

Preceding article not to ap-
ply to the im-
portation of salt, &c.

ARTICLE XI.
The preceding article is, however, not to apply to the importation of salt, and of the produce of the national fisheries ; each of the two par ties reserving to itself the faculty of granting special privileges for the importation of those articles under its own flag.

ARTICLE XII.

Vessels pro. vided with a passport, & c. to be recognised as national vessels, & c.

The high contracting parties agree to consider and to treat as Belgian vessels, and as vessels of the United States, all those which, being pro-
vided by the competent authority with a passport, sea letter, or any other sufficient document, shall be recognised conformably with existing laws as national vessels in the country to which they respectively belong.

ARTICLE XIII.

Parts of the
cargo of vessels may remain on board in the respective ports

Belgian vessels and those ofthe United States may, conformably with the laws of the two countries, retain on board, in the ports of both,
such parts of their cargoes as may be destined for a foreign country ; and such parts shall not be subjected, either while they remain on board,

without charge. or upon re-exportation, to any charges whatsoever, other than those for

the prevention of smuggling.

ARTICLE XIV.

Imported

During the period allowed by the laws of the two countries respec-

goods deposited in warehouses, to pay no other warehouse
charges, & c.

tively for the warehousing of goods, no duties, other than those of watch and storage, shall be levied upon articles brought from either country into the other, while awaiting transit, re-exportation , or entry for consumption. Such goods shall in no case be subject to higher

warehouse charges, or to other formalities, than if they had been im-

ported under the flag of the country.

ARTICLE XV.

Favors, privileges, & c. granted to any other state, to become com-
zmeonns atondthseubc-iti
jects of both parties. Duties on goods of either country, to be the same as le
vied on goods of any other foreign country.

In all that relates to duties of customs and navigation , the two high
contracting parties promise, reciprocally, not to grant any favor, privilege, or immunity, to any other state, which shall not instantly become common to the citizens and subjects of both parties respectively ; gratuitously, if the concession or favor to such other state is gratuitous, and on allowing the same compensation or its equivalent, if the concession is conditional.
Neither of the contracting parties shall lay upon goods proceeding from the soil or the industry of the other party, which may be imported into its ports, any other or higher duties of importation or re-exportation than are laid upon the importation and re-exportation of similar goods coming from any other foreign country.

Assistance, &c. in case of shipwreck. &c.

ARTICLE XVI.
In cases of shipwreck, damages at sea, or forced putting-in, each party shall afford to the vessels of the other, whether belonging to the

TREATY WITH BELGIUM . 1845.

611

ARTICLE 10.
Les primes, restitutions, ou autres faveurs de cette nature, qui pourraient être accordées dans les états des deux parties contractantes, sur des marchandises importées ou exportées par des navires nationaux, seront aussi, et de la même manière, accordées aux marchandises importées directement de l'un des deux pays sur ses navires dans l'autre, ou exportées de l'un des deux pays, par les navires de l'autre, vers quelque destination que ce soit.
ARTICLE 11.
Il est néanmoins dérogé aux dispositions qui précèdent pour l'impor tation du sel et des produits de la pêche nationale ; les deux pays se réservant la faculté d'accorder aux importations de ces articles par pavillon national des priviléges spéciaux.

ARTICLE 12.
Les hautes parties contractantes conviennent de considérer et de traiter comme navires Belges et comme navires des Etats-Unis, tous ceux qui étant pourvus par l'autorité compétente d'un passeport, d'un lettre de mer ou de tout autre document suffisant, seront, d'après les lois existantes, reconnus comme nationaux dans le pays auquel ils ap partiennent respectivement.
ARTICLE 13.
Les navires Belges et ceux des Etats-Unis pourront, conformément aux loix des deux pays, conserver à leur bord, dans les ports de l'un et de l'autre état, les parties de cargaison qui seraient destinées pour un pays étranger ; et ces parties, pendant leur séjour à bord, ou lors de leur rëexportation, ne seront astreintes à aucuns droits quelconques, autres que ceux de surveillance.

ARTICLE 14.
Pendant le temps fixé par les loix des deux pays respectivement pour l'entreposage des marchandises, il ne sera perçu aucuns droits autres que ceux de garde et d'emmagasinage sur les objets importés de l'un des pays dans l'autre en attendant leur transit, leur rëexportation ou leur mise en consommation. Ces objets, dans aucun cas, ne paieront de plus forts droits d'entrepôt et ne seront assujettis à d'autres formalités que s'ils avaient été importés par pavillon national.

ARTICLE 15.

En tout ce qui concerne les droits de douane et de navigation , les deux hautes parties contractantes se promettent réciproquement de n'accorder aucune faveur, privilège, ou immunité à un autre état, qui ne soit aussi et à l'instant étendu à leurs sujets ou citoyens respectifs,

gratuitement si la concession en faveur de l'autre état est gratuite, et en donnant la même compensation ou l'équivalent si la concession est conditionelle.

Ni l'un ni l'autre des parties contractantes n'imposera sur les mar-

chandises provenant du sol ou de l'industrie de l'autre partie, qui seront

importées dans ses ports, d'autre ni de plus forts droits d'importation ou

de rëexportation, que ceux qui seront imposés sur l'importation ou la

reexportation de marchandises similaires provenant de tout autre pays

étranger.

ARTICLE 16.

En cas de naufrage, de dommage en mer, ou de relâche forcée , chacque partie accordera aux navires, soit de l'état ou des particuliers

612

TREATY WITH BELGIUM. 1845.

state or to individuals, the same assistance and protection, and the same immunities, which would have been granted to its own vessels in similar cases.
ARTICLE XVII.

Consuls and

It is moreover agreed between the two contracting parties, that the

vice-consuls. consuls and vice-consuls of the United States in the ports of Belgium,

and, reciprocally, the consuls and vice-consuls of Belgium in the ports of the United States, shall continue to enjoy all the privileges, protec-

Consuls of either country may cause to be arrested and sent back deserters from the vessels oftheir

tion, and assistance, usually granted to them, and which may be neces sary for the proper discharge of their functions. The said consuls and vice-consuls may cause to be arrested and sent back , either to their
vessels or to their country, such seamen as may have deserted from the vessels of their nation. To this end, they shall apply in writing to the competent local authorities, and they shall prove, by exhibition of the

nation.
Deserters on plrivoeorfedtoupbe. de-

vessel's crew list, or other document, or, if she shall have departed , by copy of said documents, duly certified by them, that the seamen whom they claim formed part of the said crew. Upon such demand, thus supported, the delivery of the deserters shall not be refused. They shall moreover receive all aid and assistance in searching for, seizing,

and arresting such deserters, who shall, upon the requisition and at the Deserters to expense of the consul or vice-consul, be confined and kept in the

btiel sceonntfibnaecdku,n & c.
Certain seamen exempt from these provisions.

prisons of the country until he shall have found an opportunity for sending them home. If, however, such an opportunity should not occur within three months after the arrest, the deserters shall be set at liberty, and shall not again be arrested for the same cause. It is, however,
understood, that seamen of the country in which the desertion shall occur are excepted from these provisions, unless they be naturalized citizens or subjects of the other country.

ARTICLE XVIII .
No transit du. Articles of all kinds, the transit of which is allowed in Belgium, ties chargeable coming from or going to the United States, shall be exempt from all tohneaUrt.iScl.es from transit duty in Belgium, when the transportation through the Belgian
territory is effected on the railroads of the state.

ARTICLE XIX.

This treaty to be in force for
ten years, and until either na-

The present treaty shall be in force during ten years from the date of the exchange of the ratifications, and until the expiration of twelve months after either of the high contracting parties shall have announced

tion shall have to the other its intention to terminate the operation thereof; each party

gaidveesnirneottiocteeor-f reserving to itself the right of making such declaration to the other, at minate it after the end of the ten years above mentioned ; and it is agreed, that after

ten years.

the expiration of the twelve months of prolongation accorded on both

sides, this treaty and all its stipulations shall cease to be in force.

ARTICLE XX.
To be ratified, This treaty shall be ratified and the ratifications shall be exchanged
and ratifications at Washington, within the term of six months after its date, or sooner, exchanged at Washington, if possible ; and the treaty shall be put in execution within the term of within twelve twelve months. months.
In faith whereof, the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the present treaty, in duplicate, and have affixed thereto their seals
Brussels, the tenth of November, eighteen hundred and forty-five.

THOS. G. CLEMSON, (L. s.)

A. DECHAMPS,

(L. 8.)

TREATY WITH BELGIUM . 1845.

613

de l'autre pays, la même assistance et protection et les mêmes immunités que celles qui seraient accordées à ses propres navires dans les même cas.
ARTICLE 17.
Il est, en outre, convenu entre les deux parties contractantes, que les consuls et vice consuls des Etats- Unis dans es ports de Belgique, et reciproquement les consuls et vice consuls de Belgique dans les ports des Etats-Unis, continueront à jouir de tous les privilèges et de toute la protection et assistance, qui leur sont ordinairement accordés et qui peuvent être nécessaires pour remplir convenablement leurs fonctions. Les dits consuls et vice consuls pourront faire arrêter et renvoyer soit à bord, soit dans leur pays, les marins qui auraient desérté des bâtiments de leur nation. A cet effet, ils s'addresseront par écrit aux autorités locales compétentes et justifieront par l'exhibition du rôle d'équipage ou des registres du bâtiment, ou si le bâtiment était parti, par copie des dites pièces, dûment certifiée par eux, que les hommes qu'ils réclament faisaient partie du dit équipage. Sur cette demande ainsi justifiée, la remise ne pourra leur être refusée. Il leur sera donné, de plus, toute aide et assistance pour la recherche, saise, et arrestation des dit déser teurs, qui seront mêmes détenus et gardés dans les prisons du pays, à la requisition et aux frais du consul ou vice consul, jusqu'à ce qu'il ait trouvé une occasion de les renvoyer chez eux. Si pourtant cette occasion ne se présentait pas dans un dêlai de trois mois, à compter du jour de l'arrestation, les déserteurs seront mis en liberté et ne pourront plus arrêtés pour la même cause. Il est entendu , néanmoins, que le marins du pays où la désertion aura lieu sont exceptés de la présente disposition, à moins qu'ils ne soient naturalisés sujets ou citoyens de l'autre pays.

ARTICLE 18.
Les objets de toute nature dont le transit est permis en Belgique, venant des Etats-Unis ou expédiés vers ce pays, seront exempts de tout droit de transit en Belgique lorsque le transport sur le territoire Belge se fera par les chemins de fer de l'état.
ARTICLE 19.
Le présent traité sera en vigueur pendant dix ans, à dater du jour de l'echange des ratifications, et au delà de ce terme, jusqu'à l'expiration de douze mois après que l'une des hautes parties contractantes aura annoncé à l'autre son intention d'en faire cesser les effets : chacune d'elles se réservant le droit de faire à l'autre une telle déclaration à l'expiration des dix ans susmentionnés ; et il est convenu, qu'après les douze mois de prolongation accordés de part et d'autre, ce traité et toutes les stipulations qu'il renferme cesseront d'être obligatoires.
ARTICLE 20. Ce traité sera ratifié et les ratifications seront échangées à Washington, dans le terme de six mois après sa date, ou plutôt si faire se peut, et le traité sera mis à exécution dans le terme de douze mois.

En foi de quoi, les plenipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent
traité par duplicata, et y ont apposé leur sceau, à Bruxelles, le dix Novembre, mil huit cent quarante-cinq.

A. DECHAMPS ,

(L. 8.

THOS. G. CLEMSON, (L.

3B

APPENDIX .

CONTRAC

July 16, 1782. Between his most christian majesty and the United States

Ratified, Jan. 22, 1783.

of America, entered into by the count de Vergennes and Mr. Franklin, the 16th of July, 1782, and ratified by

congress, the 22d day ofJanuary, 1783.

Motives for

THE king having been pleased to attend to the requests made to him

cmualkairnsgtaatpeamretnit- in the name, and on behalf of the united provinces of North America, of the amount for assistance in the war and invasion under which they had for several

ofpecuniary years groaned ; and his majesty, after entering into a treaty of amity

supplies furnish and commerce with the said confederated provinces, on the 6th of Febed by France,

& c.

ruary, 1778, having had the goodness to support them, not only with

his forces by land and sea, but also with advances of money, as abundant

as they were effectual, in the critical situation to which their affairs were

reduced it has been judged proper and necessary to state exactly the

amount of those advances, the conditions on which the king made them,

the periods at which the congress of the United States have engaged to

repay them to his majesty's royal treasury, and in fine, to state this

matter in such a way as for the future to prevent all difficulties capable

of interrupting the good harmony which his majesty is resolved to main-

tain and preserve between him and the said United States. For exe-

cuting so laudable a purpose, and with a view to strengthen the bands

of amity and commerce which subsist between his majesty and the said

United States ; we, Charles Gravier de Vergennes, & c. counsellor of

the king in all his councils, commander of his orders, minister and

secretary of state, and of his commands and finances, vested with full

powers of his majesty to us given for this purpose : and we, Benjamin

Franklin, minister plenipotentiary of the United States of North Ame-

rica, in like manner vested with full powers of the congress of the said

states for the present purpose ; after duly communicating our respective

powers, have agreed to the following articles :

Amount of different loans.

ART. 1. It is agreed and certified, that the sums advanced by his majesty to the congress of the United States, under the title of a loan, in the years 1778, 1779, 1780, 1781 , and the present, 1782, amount to the sum of eighteen million of livres, money of France, according to the following twenty-one receipts of the abovementioned under written minister of congress, given in virtue of his full powers, to wit :

Items of loans.

1 , 28 February, 1778,

2, 19 May, 3, 3 August,

ditto, ditto,

4, 1 November, ditto,

5, 10 June,

1779, ·

6, 16 September, ditto , 7, 4 October, ditto,

8, 21 December, ditto,

750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
-3,000,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000
-1,000,000

(614)

APPENDIX .

615

9, 29 February, 10, 23 May, 11 , 21 June, 12, 5 October,

1780, ditto,
ditto, ditto,

.... ...

13, 27 November, ditto,

14, 15 February, 15, 15 May, 16, 15 August, 17, 1 August,

1781 , ditto,
ditto, ditto,

18, 15 November, ditto,

19, 10 April,

1782,

20, 1 July,

ditto,

21 , 5 of the same month,

750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000 1,000,000
-4,000,000 750,000 750,000 750,000 1,000,000
750,000 -4,000,000
1,500,000 1,500,000 3,000,000
-6,000,000

Amounting in the whole to 18 millions, viz. ...... 18,000,000

By which receipts the said minister has promised in the name of con- Interest at five gress, and in behalf of the thirteen United States, to cause to be paid per cent. and reimbursed to the royal treasury of his majesty, on the 1st of January, 1788, at the house of his grand banker at Paris, the said sum of eighteen millions money of France, with interest at five per cent. per annum.
ART. 2. Considering that the payment of so large a capital at the one Repayment of stipulated period, the 1st of January, 1788, may greatly injure the finan- the loans. ces of the congress of the United States, and it may perhaps be even impracticable on that footing, his majesty has been pleased for that reason to recede in that respect from the tenor of the receipts which the minister of congress has given for the eighteen million livres tournois, mentioned in the foregoing article, and has consented that the payment of the capital in ready money, at the royal treasury, be in twelve equal payments of 1,500,000 livres each, and in twelve years only, to commence from the third year after a peace.
ART. 3. Although the receipts of the minister of the congress ofthe Abatement of United States specify, that the eighteen million of livres abovementioned, interest. are to be paid at the royal treasury, with interest at five per cent. per annum, his majesty being willing to give the said United States a new proof of his affection and friendship, has been pleased to make a present of, and to forgive the whole arrears of interest to this day, and from thence to the date of the treaty of peace ; a favor which the minister of the congress of the United States acknowledges to flow from the pure bounty of the king, and which he accepts in the name of the said United States with profound and lively acknowledgments.
ART. 4. The payment ofthe said eighteen millions of livres tournois Interest to di shall be in ready money at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, in minish in protwelve equal parts, and at the terms stipulated in the above second pmoernttison, &tocp. ay article. The interest of the said sum, at five per cent. per annum shall
commence with the date of the treaty of peace, and shall be paid at every period of the partial payments of the capital, and shall diminish in proportion with the payments. The congress of the said United States being left, however, at liberty to free themselves sooner from this obligation by anticipated payments, in case the state of their finances will admit.
ART. 5. Although the loan of five millions of florins of Holland , agreed to by the states general of the United Provinces of the Nether-

616

APPENDIX.

Loan made by lands, on the terms of the obligation passed on the 5th of November lFarnadn,caeciknnHoowl-- 1781 , between his majesty and the said states general, has been made ledged to be for in his majesty's name, and guaranteed by him ; it is nevertheless ac
the use of U.S. knowledged by these presents, that the said loan was made in reality on account, and for the service, of the United States of North America, and that the capital, amounting, at a moderate valuation, to the sum of ten millions livres tournois, has been paid to the said United States, agreeably to a receipt for the payment of the said sum, given by the undersigned minister of congress, the seventh day of June last.

Engagement
of the French king to repay said loan.

ART. 6. By the convention of the said 5th of November, 1781 , the king has been pleased to promise and engage to furnish and pay at the general counter of the states general of the Netherlands, the capital of the said loan, with the interest at four per cent. per annum, without any
charge or deduction whatever to the lenders, so that the said capital shall be wholly repaid after the space of five years, the payments to be made in ten equal periods, the first of which to commence the sixth year from the date of the loan, and afterwards from year to year to the final payment of the said sum ; but it is in like manner acknowledged by this act, that this engagement was entered into by the king, at the request of the undersigned minister of the United States, and on the
promise by him made in the name of congress, and on behalf of the thirteen United States, to cause to be reimbursed and paid at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, the capital , interest, and cost of the said loan, according to the conditions and terms fixed by the said convention of the 5th of November, 1781.

Agreement to ART. 7. It is accordingly agreed and settled, that the sum of ten

repay amount of the loan in

million livres tournois, being, by a moderate computation, the principal

Holland.

of the loan of five millions of Holland florins abovementioned, shall be

reimbursed, and paid in ready money at the royal treasury of his majesty at Paris, with the interest at four per cent. per annum, in ten equal pay-

ments, of one million each, and in ten terms, the first of which shall be

on the 5th of November, 1787, the second, the 5th November, 1788,

and so from year to year till the final payment of the said sum of ten

millions, the interest lessening in proportion with the partial payments

of the capital. But in consequence of the king's affection for the

United States, his majesty has been pleased to charge himself with the

expense of commissions and bank for the said loan, of which expenses

his majesty has made a present to the United States, and this their un-

dersigned minister accepts, with thanks, in the name of congress, as a

new proof of his majesty's generosity and friendship for the said United States.

Interest onthe ART. 8. With regard to the interest of the said loan during the five loan in Holland years preceding the first term of payment of the capital , as the king ftoorbfeivpeaiydeabrys, has engaged to pay it at the general counter ofthe states general of the U.S. to France. Netherlands, at the rate of four per cent. yearly, and every year, count-
ing from the 5th of November, 1781 , according to the convention of that day, the minister of congress acknowledges that the repayment of that is due to his majesty by the United States, and he engages in the name of the said United States, to cause payment thereof to be made, at the same time and at the same rate at the royal treasury of his majesty ; the first year's interest to be paid the 5th of November next, and so yearly, during the five years preceding the first term for the payment of the capital , fixed as above on the 5th of November, 1787
The high contracting parties reciprocally bind themselves to the

APPENDIX .

617

faithful observance of this contract, the ratifications of which shall be Ratifications

exchanged

in

the

space of nine

months from this

day,

or

sooner,

if

to be exchanged in nine months.

possible.

In testimony whereof, we, the said plenipotentiaries of his most Chris-

tian majesty, and of the thirteen United States of North America, in virtue of our respective powers, have signed these presents, and thereunto fixed the seal of our arms.

Done at Versailles, the 16th day of July, one thousand seven hun-

dred and eighty-two.

GRAVIER DE VERGENNES , L. S.

B. FRANKLIN,

L. S.

Feb. 24, 1845.

ADDITIONAL ARTICLE To the Treaty with France, of November 9, 1843.

Ratified May 5, 1845.
Proclamation, July 24, 1845.

THE crime of robbery, defining the same to be the felonious and forcible taking from the person of another, of goods or money to any value, by violence, or putting him

Le crime de robbery, consistant dans l'enlèvement forcé et crimi-
nel, effectué sur la personne d'autrui, d'argent, ou d'effets d'une valeur quelconque, à l'aide de vio-

The crimes of
robbery and bur glary defined, and included in the provisions ofthis
treaty.

in fear ; and the crime of burglary, defining the same to be, breaking and entering by night into a mansion house of another, with intent

lence ou d'intimidation ; et le crime de burglary, consistant dans l'action de s'introduire nuitam-
ment, et avec effraction ou esca-

to commit felony ; and the corres- lade, dans l'habitation d'autrui, ponding crimes included under the avec une intention criminelle ; et

French law in the words vol qual- les crimes correspondants prévus

ifié crime, not being embraced in the second article of the convention of extradition concluded between the United States of America and

et punis par la loi française, sous la qualification de vols commis avec violence ou menaces, et de
vols commis dans une maison hab-

France, on the 9th of November, itée, avec les circonstances de la

1843, it is agreed by the pres- nuit et de l'escalade, ou de l'effrac-

ent article, between the high contracting parties, that persons charged with those crimes shall be

tion , n'étant pas compris dans l'article 2 de la convention d'extradition conclue entre les Etats

respectively delivered up, in conformity with the first article of the said convention ; and the present article, when ratified by the parties, shall constitute a part of the said convention, and shall have the same

Unis d'Amérique, et la France, le 9 Novembre, 1843, -il est convenu, par le présent article, entre les hautes parties contractantes, que les individus accusés de ces crimes seront respectivement livrés, con-

Ante, p. 583.

force as if it had been originally formément à l'article 1 er de la

inserted in the same.

dite convention ; et le présent ar-

ticle, lorsqu'il aura été ratifié par

les parties, fera partie de la dite convention, et aura la même valeur

In witness whereof, the respect-
ive Plenipotentiaries have signed the present article, in duplicate, and have affixed thereto the seal of their arms.

que s'il y avait été originairement inscrit.
En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signe, en double, le présent article, et y ont apposé le sceau de leurs armes.

Done at Washington , this twen- Fait à Washington , le vingt

ty-fourth of February, 1845. J. C. CALHOUN, [ L. S. ]
VOL. VIII. 78

quatre Février, 1845. A. PAGEOT, [ L. §. ] 3B3

INDEX TO THE
TREATIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
FOREIGN NATIONS .

Algiers.

Treaty of Peace and Amity between the Dey

of Algiers and the United States of Ame

rica. Sept. 5, 1795,

133

Article 1. Peace established,

133

Art. 2. Commercial intercourse regulated, 133

Art. 3. Vessels of each nation to pass unmo-

lested,

·

· · 133

Art. 4. How passports of vessels and ships

ofwar shall be examined, and to whom be

granted,

· · 133

Art. 5. No Algerine cruiser may take any per.

son out of a vessel of the United States, 134

Art. 6. Vessels of United States stranded to

be relieved,.

134

Algiers. Treaty of Peace and Amity with the Dey of Algiers. June 30-July 6, 1815, 224

Article 1. Peace and friendship. Favours

in navigation and commerce to be common

to each,

224

Art. 2. Abolition of tribute in any form, 224 Art. 3. American citizens to be delivered up, 224 Art. 4. Indemnification to American citizens

for detention and loss of property. Bales

of cotton and $10,000 to be delivered to the

American Consul, ·

224

Art. 5. Enemy's property to pass free in ves-

sels of each party,

224

Art. 6. Citizens or subjects taken on board

Art. 7. Algerines not to sell vessels of war to the enemies of the United States, 134
Art. 8. When passport is not necessary, 134

an enemy's vessel to be liberated, - 224
Art. 7. Passports to vessels of each party and right of visit restricted. Offenders to

Art. 9. When other Barbary States not to be allowed to sell prizes in Algiers, · 134

be punished for abusing the right of visit. Vessels of war of United States to suffer

Art. 10. United States may send prizes into

ports ofthe Regency, ·

134

Art. 11. How ships of war of United States

shall be treated in the ports of the Re-

gency, ·

·

134

Art. 12. How slaves shall be redeemed, and

when captured persons shall be lawful

prize,

· · 135

Art. 13. How the estates of citizens of United

States dying in the Regency shall be set-

·

tled,

135

Art. 14. No citizen of United States to be

Algerine cruisers to pass unmolested, 225 Art. 8. What shall be a sufficient passport, 225

Art. 9. Provisions to be furnished to vessels

in need at market price, · -

225

Art. 10. Assistance to be given to the crew,

and protection to the property of vessels

cant ashore,

·

225

Art. 11. How vessels may be protected, 225

Art. 12. Commerce on the footing ofthe most

favoured nations, · ·

225

Art. 13. Consul of United States not respon-

sible for debts of citizens, & c.,

225

compelled to purchase goods or pay debts

of another,

135

Art. 14. Salutes to vessels of war of the

United States,

225

Art. 15. How disputes shall be settled, - 135 Art. 16. How crimes shall be punished, 135

Art. 17. Privileges oftheConsul ofthe United

States,

135

Art. 15. Pretexts arising from religious opi-

nions not to interrupt harmony, &c. Con. suls may travel within the territories of

each party,

226

Art. 18. In case of war citizens of United

States may embark unmolested,

136

Art. 19. Citizens of either nation captured by

the other to be set at liberty,

136

Art. 20. Vessels of war to be saluted, - 136

Art. 16. How disputes may be settled, & c., 226 Art. 17. Prisoners of war not to be made

slaves, but to be exchanged within twelve

months,

226

Art. 18. Powers at war with United States

Art. 21. Consul not to pay duty,

136

Art. 22. War not to be declared in case of

breach of treaty. Sum to be paid to the

Dey,

· 136

not to be empowered to sell American ves-

sels captured at Algiers, ·

226

Art. 19. Consuls of United States to decide

disputes between American citizens, 226

(619)

620

INDEX .

Algiers.

Art. 20. In cases of killing, wounding, or

striking, the law of the country to pre-

vail, & c.,

· 226

Art. 21. Consul of United States not to pay

duties on what he imports for his house

and family,

· 226

Art. 22. Citizens of the United States dying

within the regency of Algiers, their pro-

perty to be under the direction of the Consul, unless otherwise disposed of by

will,

· 226

Renewed Treaty with Algiers. Dec. 22, 23,

1816,

· 244

Article 1. Peace and friendship established. Favours in navigation and commerce to be

common to each, & c., ·

244

Art. 2. Abolition of tribute in any form, 244

Art. 3. Mutual restitution of prisoners and

subjects,

244

Art. 4. Delivery of a quantity of bales of

cotton to the Consul-General,

244

Art. 5. Enemy's property to pass free in ves-

sels of each party,

244

Art. 6. Citizens or subjects taken on board an enemy's vessel to be liberated, - 244
Art. 7. Passports to vessels of each party and right of visit restricted. Offenders to be

punished for abusing the right of visit. Vessels of war of United States to suffer

Algerine cruisers to pass, & c., · 245 Art. 8. What shall be a sufficient passport, 245

Art. 9. Provisions to be furnished to vessels

at market price,

· · 245

Art. 10. Assistance to vessels cast on shore, 245

Art. 11. How vessels may be protected, 245

Art. 12. Commerce, & c., on the footing of

the most favoured nations,

· 245

Art. 13. Consul of United States not respon-

sible for debts of citizens, & c.,

246

Art. 14. Salutes to vessels of war of United

States,

246

Art. 15. Religious opinions not to interrupt

harmony. Consuls may travel within the

territory of each party,

246

Art. 16. How disputes may be settled, & c., 246 Art. 17. Prisoners of war not to be made

slaves, but to be exchanged within twelve

months, ·

246

Art. 18. Powers at war with United States

not to be suffered to sell American captured

vessels at Algiers,

· 246

Art. 19. Consuls of United States to de-

cide disputes between American citizens,

& c.,

247

Art. 20. In case of crimes the law of the

country to prevail,

247

Art. 21. Consuls of United States not to pay

duties on imports for their houses and fa-

milics,

247

Art. 22. Citizens of United States dying

within the Regency, their property to be

under the direction of the Consul, & c., 247

Article additional and explanatory,

247

Part of the thirteenth article of the Treaty

annulled,

247

Austria.

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and His Ma.

Austria.

jesty the Emperor of Austria. August 26, 1829.

Article 1. Free trade established,

399

Art. 2. Tonnage duties,

399

Art. 3. Duties on imports,

399

Art. 4. Stipulations in the three articles mu-

tually applicable,

399

Art. 5. Parties placed as to duties on the

footing ofthe most favoured nations, 399

Art. 6. Duties, bounties, and drawbacks on

exports,

400

Art. 7. Coastwise navigation,

400

Art. 8. Vessels of the parties to be equally

favoured,

400

Art. 9. If future favours granted to any na-

tion, to be common to the parties, 400

Art. 10. Consuls,

400

Art. 11. Individuals may remove or dispose

of their property. Property of persons

dying. This article not to derogate from the laws of Austria to prevent emigra

tion,

·

401

Art. 12. Duration and ratification of the

treaty,

- 401

Belgium. Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and His Ma-

jesty the King of the Belgians. Novem-

ber 10, 1845, ·

588

Article 1. Freedom of commerce between the

two countries. The same duties, & c. , to

be paid by the citizens of either coun-

try,

. 588

Art. 2. Belgian vessels shall pay in the ports

of the United States no other or higher

duties of tonnage than paid by vessels of

the United States, ·

588

Art. 3. Vessels of the United States to pay

in the ports of Belgium no other or higher

duties than are paid by Belgian vessels, 588

Art. 4. Restitution guarantied of certain du-

ties levied by the Netherlands,

590

Art. 5. Steam-vessels to be exempt from du-

ties oftonnage, Art. 6. Coasting trade,

- 590 - 590

Art. 7. Articles proceeding from the soil, & c.,

of Belgium to pay no other duties than if

imported under the flag of the United

States. Reciprocal benefits to importations

into Belgium. Regulations,

590

Art. 8. The articles imported into the United

States in Belgian vessels to pay no other

duties than if imported in vessels of the

most favoured nations,

· 590

Art. 9. Exportations by Belgian or United

States vessels,

590

Art. 10. Premiums, drawbacks, & c., allowed

upon goods imported directly from one of

the two countries, & c., ·

592

Art. 11. Provisions in article 10 not to apply

to the importation of salt, &c., or the pro-

duce of national fisheries,

592

Art. 12. Vessels provided with a passport,

& c., to be recognized as national ves-

sels,

592

Art. 13. Parts of the cargoes of vessels may

remain on board in the respective ports

without charge,

592

INDEX .

621

Belgium.

| Brazil.

Art. 14. Imported goods deposited in ware-

Art. 22. Vessels under convoy,

395

houses to pay no warehouse charges, other

than those imported in vessels under the

flag ofthe country,

· 592

Art. 23. Prize courts to take cognizance of

prizes, -

395

Art. 24. Letters of marque not to be accepted

Art. 15. Favours, privileges, & c., granted to

to take part in war between either of

any other State to become common to citizens, & c., of both States. Duties to be the

the parties hereto and other powers, 396 Art. 25. Provisions in case of war between

same as those levied on goods of any other

foreign country,

592

Art. 16. Assistance, &c., in case of ship-

wreck,

592

Art. 17. Consuls and Vice-Consuls. De-

serters. Certain seamen exempt from these

provisions,

· 594

Art. 18. No transit duties chargeable on

articles from the United States, · 594

Art. 19. This treaty to be in force for ten years, and until either nation shall have

the parties,

396

Art. 26. No debts, &c., to be forfeited, 396

Art. 27. Immunities of public agents, 396

Art. 28. Consuls, ·

396

Art. 29. Exequaturs to be given to Con-

suls,

397

Art. 30. Privileges of Consuls,

- 397

Art. 31. Deserters from vessels, · - 397

Art. 32. A consular convention to be esta

blished,

·

397

Art. 33. The treaty to be in force for twelve

given notice of a desire to terminate it

after ten years,

· · 594

years. Offences of citizens not to affect the relations of the parties to this treaty.

·

Art. 20. Ratifications to be exchanged at

Proceedings on infractions of this treaty.

Washington, within twelve months, 594

Treaty not to operate contrary to the

Brazil. Treaty with Brazil. December 12, 1828, 390

former treaties with other powers. Ratifications to be exchanged in nine months, 397

Article 1. Peace to be established, · 390 Centre of America, Federation of the.

Art. 2. Parties on the footing of the most fa-

voured nations ; the relations between Brazil

and Portugal excepted,

- 390

Art. 3. Free intercourse, coasting trade ex-

cepted,

390

Art. 4. Vessels of both countries on the same

footing as to the importation of foreign

goods into either country. Same as to ex-

portation. What vessels to be considered

Brazilian,

· 391

General Convention of Peace, Amity, Commerce and Navigation between the United

States of America, and the Federation of the Centre of America. December 5,

1825,

322

Article 1. Peace and friendship establish.

ed,

322

Art. 2. Parties agree not to grant any pecu.

liar favour to other nations in respect to

commerce, & c. , ·

·

322

Art. 5. Duties on imports and exports, - 391

Art. 3. The citizens of each may frequent

Art. 6. All merchants, and the business of

all the coasts, &c., of the other,

322

merchants, placed on the most favoured

footing,

·

391

Art. 7. Citizens and subjects to be secured

from detention, and to be indemnified if

detained ,

· 391

Art. 8. Vessels in distress,

· 392

Art. 9. Property captured by pirates to be

restored,

392

Art. 10. Assistance in case of shipwreck, 392

Art. 4. Further agreement with regard to

the produce of each other,

· 324

Art. 5. Regulation of duties,

324

Art. 6. Further agreements as to mutual

commerce,

· 324

Art. 7. Citizens of neither party to be liable

to any embargo,

· 324

Art. 8. Protection in case of distress or ship-

wreck ,

· 326

Art. 11. Provision as to personal property.

Real property,

392

Art. 9. Ships of either nation captured by pirates to be delivered up to the owners, 326

Art. 12. Special protection to persons and

their property,

·

· 392

Art. 13. Liberty of conscience,

393

Art. 10. Assistance to be given to cach other

in case of wreck, ·

· 326

Art. 11. Citizens of either party may dispose

Art. 14. Free ships make free goods ; contra-

band goods excepted. Free ships to make

free persons, unless officers and soldiers of

the enemy,

· · 393

of their personal goods within either ofthe

States,

· 326

Art. 12. Protection to the persons and pro-

perty of the citizens of each country, 326

Art. 15. Qualification as to the principle

that free ships make free goods,

393

Art. 16. Contraband goods,

· 394

Art. 17. All other merchandise free, - 394

Art. 18. Contraband goods subject to for. feiture. If articles contraband shall be

delivered up, the vessel not to be de-

tained,

· 394

Art. 19. Blockades,

· 394

Art. 20. Examinations of vessels,

395

Art. 21. Vessels to be provided with certain

papers, .

395

Art. 13. Security of conscience to be enjoyed by the citizens of both countries, - 328
Art. 14. Citizens of both countries to sail

with their ships with all manner of liberty

and security, 

328

Art. 15. Neutral property found on board of enemies' vessels to be considered as ene.

mies' property. The flag of the neutral

does not protect enemies' property, - 328

Art. 16. Liberty of navigation and commerce

to extend to all kinds of merchandise ex-

cept certain articles contraband,

330

622

INDEX.

Centre of America, Federation of the.

Art. 17. All other merchandise not compre-

hended in the articles enumerated to be

free,

· 330

Art. 18. Articles of contraband to be subject

to detention and confiscation, ·

330

Art. 19. Agreements in case of blockade, 330

Art. 20. Regulation of visits at sea, 332

Art. 21. Course to be pursued to avoid vexation in the examination of papers, 332

Art. 22. Further agreement as to examina-

tion of vessels,

332

Art. 23. Prize causes,

332

Art. 24. War, ·

332

Art. 25. Agreement in case of war between

the two nations as to the removal of pro-

perty and citizens, & c., ·

· 334

Art. 26. Debts not to be sequestered in case

of war, ·

· 334

Art. 27. Official intercourse,

334

Art. 28. Consuls and Vice-Consuls, - 334

Art. 29. Privileges of Consuls,

336

Art. 30. Persons attached to the service of

Consuls,

336

Art. 31. Power of Consuls respecting de-

serters,

336

Art. 32. Commerce and navigation, 336

Art. 33. Present treaty to remain in force

twelve years, & c. Infringement of the

treaty. No reprisals of breach of treaty

except after complaints of injuries, & c. Treaty not to be construed to operate con-

trary to former public treatics with other

sovereigns or States. Approval and rati-

fication ofthe treaty,

· 336

Chile.

General Convention of Peace, Amity, Com-

merce and Navigation between the United

States of America and the Republic of

Chile. May 16, 1832, ·

434

Article 1. Peace and friendship establish-

ed,

···

434

Art. 2. Favours granted to other nations

shall become common to both. Excep-

tions,

··

434

Art. 3. Commerce and navigation. Coast-

ing trade excepted,

· 434

Art. 4. Merchants and others free to manage

their business,

435

Art. 5. Indemnification for embargo and de-

tention,

· 435

Art. 6. Assistance to be secured to persons

in the rivers, ports, &c., from pirates and

enemies,

435

Art. 7. Vessels captured by pirates to be re-

stored ,

435

Art. 8. Protection to vessels, & c., ship-

wrecked,

· 435

Art. 9. Personal and real estate may be dis-

posed of and taken by succession , & c., 435

Art. 10. Protection to residents in cither

country, Art. 11. Liberty of conscience,

· 436 - 436

Art. 12. Free ships make free goods, · 436

Art. 13. Neutral property in enemies' ships

liable to capture, with exceptions, · 437

Art. 14. Contraband articles,

437

Art. 15. All articles not enumerated in

Chile.

article 14 to be free, except to blockaded

ports,

437

Art. 16. Contraband articles not to condemn

those not contraband,

437

Art. 17. Blockade,

. 437

Art. 18. Regulation of visits at sea , 1 438

Art. 19. Sea letters and passports to vessels

in case of war, ·

· 438

Art. 20. Vessels under convoy, · · 438

Art. 21. Prize courts,

·

439

Art. 22. No citizen of either party to enter

the service of an enemy of the other, 439 Art. 23. In case of war between the parties,
six months to be allowed to persons re-

siding on the coast, and one year to per

sons in the interior to dispose of their pro-

perty and remove, ·

· 439

Art. 24. Private and public debts shall not be

sequestrated or confiscated in case of

war,

439

Art. 25. Public agents on the footing of those

ofthe most favoured nations,

439

Art. 26. Consuls,

439

Art. 27. Consuls must exhibit their commis-

sions,

440

Art. 28. Immunities of Consuls, &c., 440

Art. 29. Consuls may require the aid of the

civil authorities to arrest deserters. De-

serters must be sent back within two

months, -

·

440

Art. 30. A consular convention to be form-

ed,

440

Art. 31. The treaty to be in force for twelve

years. Individuals to be responsible for

infringements. Manner of proceeding in

case of infringement. Existing treaties not to be affected by this treaty. This

treaty to be ratified in nine months, 441

An Additional Explanatory Convention to the Treaty between the United States and the

Republic ofChile. September 1 , 1833, 456

The treaty of May 16, 1832, to be carried

into effect, notwithstanding the ratifica-

tions were not exchanged in the time

limited, ·

··

456

Article 1. Stipulations of the 2d article, how

to be understood,

456

China.

Treaty with China. July 3, 1844,

574

Article 1. Peace and amity established between the United States and China, 574

Art. 2. Citizens of the United States trading
with China to pay the duties prescribed in the tariff. Fees and charges wholly

abolished. Modification of the tariff, how

to be made. Additional advantages, it

hereafter granted or extended to any

other nation, to be enjoyed by the United

States,

574

Art. 3. Ports which may be frequented by

citizens of the United States who may reside there. Vessels of the United

States not to trade at any other port.

Penalty,

574

Art. 4. United States may appoint Consuls.

INDEX.

623

China.

China.

Protection of Consuls and other officers

ofthe United States,

· · 574

be punished by the Consul according to the laws ofthe United States, · · 578

Art. 5. Privileges of trade at the ports named,

Art. 22. If China should be at war with any

given to citizens of the United States, 574

foreign nation, the trade of the United

Art. 6. Papers of vessels of the United States

States to the Five ports not to be molested.

to be left with the Consul. Tonnage du

Transportation of goods to and from the

ties to be paid in full of all former rates and charges. No additional tonnage du

ties to be paid on vessels going from one

port to another,

575

Art. 7. No tonnage duties to be laid on boats

belonging to citizens of the United States.

Duty on cargo goods,

575

Art. 8. Citizens of United States may engage

pilots, and may hire servants, -

575

Art. 9. Custom-house officers to be appointed

ports of the belligerents to be allowed, &c.

Proviso,

579

Art. 23. Consuls of United States to make

returns of the trade of United States with

the five ports,

579

Art. 24. Communications with the local offi-

cers of China, how to be made. Com-

munications from subjects of China, howto be made. Settlement of controversies, 579

Art. 25. Questions between citizens ofUnited

to guard the vessels of the United States

on arrival, & c.,

575

Art. 10. Proceedings of vessels of the United States on their arrival in China. Penalties

States and China, how to be regulated.

Between citizens of United States and

others,

579

Art. 26. Merchant vessels of United States

for discharging vessels without a permit.

Vessels departing within forty-eight hours

not to be subject to tonnage or other du-

ties,

·

576

in the five ports to be under the jurisdiction of the officers of their government.
Robbers and pirates, &c., to be arrested and punished by the Chinese government.

Art. 11. Appointment of officers to ascertain

duties to be paid on goods imported. Dis-

putes as to amount of duties, where and

how settled, ·

· · 576

Art. 12. Standards of weights and mea

sures,

·

· 576

Art. 13. When tonnage and other duties shall

be paid. Duties to be paid in sychee and

silver, or in foreign money at the current

rate of exchange,

· 577

Art. 14. Regulation for transhipment of

goods from one vessel of United States to

another, .

577

Art. 15. Citizens of United States may trade with any and all citizens of China. Not

to be subject to any new limitation, &c., 577

Disposition of the property recovered, 580

Art. 27. Shipwrecks. Vessels forced into

any other than the five ports shall receive

friendly treatment, -

580

Art. 28. Citizens or vessels of United States

not to be subject to embargo, ·

580

Art. 29. Mutineers and deserters to be appre-

hended and delivered to United States Con-

suls. Merchants, &c., of United States to

be under the superintendence of the officers

of their government,

· 580

Art. 30. Correspondence between the respective governments and their officers, and between individuals and their govern-

ment,

581

Art.31. Transmission ofcommunications, 581

Art. 32. Intercourse with ships of war, 581

Art. 16. Chinese government not responsible

for debts due by its government. Debts

due by citizens of United States to subjects

of China,

577

Art. 17. Citizens of United States residing

at any of the five ports may obtain proper

accommodations, & c. At places of an-

Art. 33. Clandestine trade prohibited, - 581 Art. 34. At the expiration of twelve years
the two governments may treat on matters which may require alterations. The treaty, when ratified, to be faithfully observed, &c. No individual State ofthe United States can appoint a minister to China. Ratifications

chorage, &c., merchants may pass and re-

pass in the inmediate vicinity. No excur-

sions into the country, &c. Preservation

of the public peace,

577

to be exchanged in eighteen months, 581 The tariff of duties to be levied on imported
and exported merchandise at the Five ports, 582, 583, 584, 585, 586, 587.

Art. 18. Persons may be employed to teach

the languages in any part of the empire. Citizens of the United States may buy any

manner of books,

578

Art. 19. Citizens of United States to be spe-

cially protected by the local authorities. Riots and attacks on their houses to be

prevented by military force, and rioters

punished, ·

· 578

Art. 20. Re-cxportation of goods imported

into China by citizens of the United States

to other permitted ports. Frauds on the

government ofChina, ·

578

Colombia.

General Convention of Peace, Amity, Navi-

gation and Commerce between the United

States and the Republic of Colombia. Octo-

ber 3, 1824,

· 306

Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace, & c., to

be observed, &c.,

. 306

Art. 2. Favours to other nations to be com-

mon to both,

306

Art.3. Citizens of the United States at liberty

to frequent all the coasts and countries of

the Republic of Colombia. Citizens of

Art. 21. Criminal acts by subjects of China to be punished by the Chinese. Citizens of the United States committing crimes to

Colombia to enjoy in the United States the

same privilege,

- 306

Art. 4. Merchants and commanders of ships,

624

INDEX .

Colombia.

& c., to manage their business as citizens ofthe most favoured nations, · · 308

Art. 5. Citizens of neither of the contracting

parties liable to embargo, & c.,

308

Art. 6. Citizens of either party seeking re-

fuge to be treated as friends, ·

308

Art. 7. Ships or vessels of either party cap-

tured by pirates to be delivered up, 308 Art. 8. Assistance in case of shipwreck, 308 Art. 9. Citizens of each of the parties may

dispose of their goods in the jurisdiction

of the other,

308

Art. 10. Special protection to be given to the

person and property of citizens of either

party,

310

Art. 11. Security of conscience,

310

Art. 12. Citizens of either party may sail

with their ships from any ports to the

places of those who are at enmity with

either party,

·

310

Art. 13. Neutral property found on board enemies' vessels shall be held and consi-

dered as enemies' property. Exceptions,

312

Art. 14. Liberty of navigation and commerce

to extend to all kinds of merchandise, ex-

cept certain contraband articles, · 312 Art. 15. All other merchandise to be held

free,

· 312

Art. 16. Articles of contraband found in a

vessel bound to an enemy's port shall be

subject to confiscation,

312

Art. 17. Vessels sailing for a port besieged

without notice may be turned away, 314

Art. 18. Regulation of visits at sea, 314

Art. 19. Agreement entered into to avoid vexation in the examination of papers

relative to the ownership ofvessels, & c., 314

Art. 20. Vessels sailing under convoy, 316

Art. 21. Prize courts alone to take cogni-

zance of prize causes ,

316

Art. 22. No citizen of either contracting

party shall accept a commission, & c., 316 Art. 23. Six months allowed to merchants to

remove in case of war,

316

Art. 24. Debts of individuals in case of war

not to be sequestered, ·

· 316

Art. 25. Same favours to be granted to con-

voys, &c., as enjoyed by the most favoured

nations,

316

Art. 26. Consuls to be admitted in all ports,

318

Art. 27. Consuls to exhibit their commis-

sions,

318

Art. 28. Consuls and persons attached to

their service exempt from public service,

318

Art. 29. Consuls have power to require the

assistance of the authorities for the arrest,

& c., ofdeserters,

·

318

Art. 30. A consular convention to be agreed

upon,

320

Art. 31. Points agreed upon relative to the

treaty. Treaty to remain in force for twelve years. Harmony and good correspondence between the two nations. No reprisals in case of parties not agreeing to

the treaty. Treaty to be approved and

Colombia.

ratified, and ratifications exchanged within

eight months, -

320

Denmark.

General Convention of Friendship, Com-

merce and Navigation between the United States of America and His Majesty the

King of Denmark. April 26, 1826, 340 Article 1. Commerce and navigation, · 340

Art. 2. Navigation, equality, and recipro

city, Art. 3. Duties on the produce and
tures of either country, Art. 4. Duties, Art. 5. Duties,
Art. 6. Possessions of Denmark, Art. 7. Taxes, Art. 8. Consuls and Vice-Consuls,

340 manufac
340 341 341 341 · 342 342

Art. 9. Rights and privileges ofConsuls, 342 Art. 10. Regulations concerning Consuls, 342 Art. 11. Convention to be in force for ten

years,

342

Art. 12. Convention to be approved ofby the

President and the King of Denmark, 342

Addendum to the Treaty of April 26, 1826,

343

Provision relative to the claims ofthe United

States for indemnities not waived by the

treaty,

· 343

Convention between the United States of Ame-

rica and His Majesty the King of Den

mark, signed at Copenhagen the 28th

March, 1830, ·

·

· 402

Article 1. Renunciation by Denmark of

indemnity. Agreement to indemnify the United States for the seizure and condemna-

tion of their vessels, & c.,

402

Art. 2. Payment of the said indemnity, 402

Art. 3. A board of commissioners to be ap-

pointed to ascertain the validity, &c., of

the claims. Proceedings of the commis

sioners,

·

404

Art. 4. No further claims for the seizure or

confiscation of their vessels shall be here.

after presented,

· 406

Art. 5. The convention only applicable to

the cases mentioned in it,

406

Art. 6. Ratifications to be exchanged within

six months, · ·

406

Ecuador.

Fr Treaty with, of June 13, 1839, 534 ance.

Treaty of February 6, 1778,

6

Article I. If war should break out between

France and Great Britain, it shall be a

common cause,

6

Art. 2. The essential and direct object of

this alliance is the independence of the

United States,

·8

Art. 3. Both parties to make every effort to

attain the same,

8

Art. 4. Concurrence in enterprises,

8

Art. 5. If United States shall reduce from

the British power the northern parts of

America, or the Islands of Bermudas, they shall be confederated with or be dependent

on the United States,

8

INDEX .

625

France.

France.

Art. 6. France relinquishes all claims to the

Islands of Bermudas, or any part of North

America, · ·

8

Art. 7. Conquests which shall belong to

France,

8

Art. 8. Neither party to conclude a treaty without the consent ofthe other, · 8

Art. 9. No claim of compensation after the

war,

8

Art. 17. Prizes may be carried into the ports

ofeither party. No shelter to be given to

the captors of prizes taken from either

party,

22

Art. 18. In case of shipwreck, relief to be

given,

22

Art. 19. Vessels in distress, forced into ports

of either party, to be protected and permit-

ted to depart, ·

22

Art. 10. Agreement to admit other powers

to the alliance,

10

Art. 11. Mutual guaranty,

10

Art. 12. Guaranty, when to commence, 10

Art. 13. Ratification, - ·

10

Note of the treaties and conventions be-

tween the United States and France, 6

Treaty of Amity and Commerce between the

United States of America and His Most Christian Majesty. February 6, 1778,* 12

Article 1. Peace and friendship between the

nations,

14

Art. 2. Neither party to grant favours to other nations which shall not become com-

mon to the other party,

14

Art. 3. Subjects of the King of France enti

tled to the same privileges in the United States as the most favoured nations, 14 Art. 4. Citizens of United States to be enti-

tled to the same privileges in the dominions of France as the most favoured na-

tions,

14

Art. 5. Particular exception,

14

Art. 6. France to protect vessels of the citi

zens of the United States in her jurisdic

tion ; to restore them when captured, and

to convoy them in certain cases,

16

Art. 7. The United States to do the

same,

16

Art. 8. The King of France to aid the United

States to make treaties with the Barbary

powers, ·

16

Art. 9. Subjects of either party not to fish in

the dominions of the other,

16

Art. 10. Citizens of the United States not to

disturb the subjects of France in their

right of fishing on the Banks of New.

foundland,

·

16

Art. 11. Citizens of the United States ex-

empted from droit d'aubaine, and may dis-

pose of their estates. Subjects of France have similar privileges, · · · 18

Two articles originally agreed to, re-

scinded, .

18

Art. 12. Ships suspected shall exhibit pass-

ports and certificates,

20

Art. 13. Proceedings in case of contraband

goods ,

20

Art. 14. Goods found in an enemy's ship may

be confiscated, unless put on board before

the declaration of war, or within two

months after, .

20

Art. 15. Ships of war and privateers to do no injury to either party. Punishment for
so doing, and reparation to be made, 22 Art. 16. All merchandize rescued out of the
hands of pirates to be restored, · 22

Art. 20. In case of war six months to be

allowed to the citizens or subjects to re-

move with their effects, ·

24

Art. 21. Citizens or subjects of neither party to take commissions or letters of marque

from any foreign power or state with whom

the other party is at war, nor act as priva-

teers,

·

- 24

Art. 22. Foreign privateers not to be allowed

to be fitted out or to sell their prizes in the

ports of the other party, -

· 24

Art. 23. Liberty for either party to trade

with a nation at war with the other party.

Free ships make free goods, excepting con-

traband articles,

26

Art. 24. What goods shall be deemed contra-

band,

26

Art. 25. Ships or vessels to be furnished

with sea-letters or passports and certifi

cates,

·

26

Art. 26. Vessels coming on the coast, or en-

tering the ports of either party, how to be

treated, ·

· 28

Art. 27. How vessels are to be treated if met

by ships of war or privateers, .. 28 Art. 28. No search after goods are put on board

of vessels, except in case of fraud, - 28

Art. 29. Consuls to be allowed in the ports

of either party,

28

Art. 30. Free ports,

28

Art. 31. Ratification,

30

Convention between his Most Christian Ma.

jesty and the United States of America.

November 14, 1788,*

- 106

Article 1. Consuls to present commissions and

to be entitled to an exequatur, -

106

Art. 2. Privileges of Consuls,

. 106

Art. 3. Consuls may appoint agents, 108

Art. 4. Consuls may establish a Chan-

cery,

108

Art. 5. Power and duty of Consuls, · 108

Art. 6. Consuls to receive declarations, & c.,

from captains, of losses at sea, · 110

Art. 7. Power of Consuls in case of ship-

wreck,

·

· 110

Art. 8. Power of Consuls respecting vessels

of their own nation,

· 112

Art. 9. Power of Consuls in regard to deserters, and mode of proceeding, · 112
Art. 10. Citizens amenable for crimes to the

judgment of the country,

112

Art. 11. How to proceed when offenders

withdraw on board their vessels, . 112

Art. 12. Disputes between citizens in a fo-

reign countryto be settled by Consuls, 114

Art. 13. Tribunals to decide commercial

affairs,

·

· 114

* Annulled by Act of July 7, 1798, vol. i ., 578.

Annulled by Act of July 7, 1798, vol . i., 578.

VOL. VIII.

79

3C

626

INDEX.

France.

Art. 14. Citizens exempted from personal ser-

vice in places of settlement,

114

Art. 15. If either party grant greater consular

privileges to another nation, they shall be

common to both,

114

Art. 16. This convention shall be in force

during twelve years, ·

· 114

Convention between the French Republic

and the United States. September 30,

1800,

178

Article 1. Firm, inviolable and universal peace

between the French Republic and United

States of America, -

178

Art. 2. Treaty of 6th of February, 1788, and

convention of the 14th November, 1788,

abrogated, ·

178

Art. 3. Captured public ships to be re-

stored, ·

·

178

Art. 4. Captured property, if not definitively condemned, to be restored. Form of the passport to merchant ships. Proof of captured vessels restored. Proof with respect to cargo. This article to take effect

from the signature ofthis convention, 178

Art. 5. Debts due by individuals of either

nation may be paid, & c., · · 180

Art. 6. Commerce between the parties to be

free,

· 180

Art. 7. The citizens of either country to be

at liberty to devise their property, and to

have the right to take, to give, or devise,

without naturalization,

182

Art. 8. In case of war between the two na-

tions, six months to be allowed to remove

property,

182

Art. 9. No debts to be sequestered or confis-

cated in case of war,

182

Art. 10. Commercial agents may be appointed.

Agents to act after being furnished with

exequatur, ·

182

Art. 11. No more duties to be paid than the

duties paid by the most favoured na-

tion,

182

Art. 12. Citizens of France and of the United

States to be at liberty to trade from ene-

mies' ports to the ports of either country, unless blockaded. Notice of blockade to

be given before capture of vessels, and

vessels to be permitted to go to other

ports, ·

· · 184

Art. 13. Contraband. Vessels laden with

contraband goods, and the residue of the

cargo, not to be affected by the prohibited

goods, · · ·

· · 184

Art 14. Free ships make free goods ; not

contraband, although belonging to an ene-

my. Persons not military to be protected

in free ships,

- - 184

Art. 15. Confiscation of free goods laden on

board of an enemy's vessel after war is

declared,

186

Art. 16. Passports to be exhibited, and also

certificates of the quality of goods, 186
Art. 17. In time of war, the ships of a neutral nation to be furnished with passports inentioned in the fourth article. If con-

traband goods found on board are delivered

France.

up, the ship may pursue her voyage. If

there is no passport, and other proof ofthe

neutrality of the vessel, then no condem. nation. Ifthe master of a vessel dies, the

ship and cargo shall be secure, - 186

Art. 18. Ships of either nation, if examined

at sea, boats to be sent, and ships of war

and privateers, to remain out of cannon

shot,

- 188

Art. 19. Ships under convoy not to be ex-

amined, .

188

Art. 20. Receipts to be given for the papers

of captured vessels. Sale of captured ves-

sels not to be made without lawful condem-

nation,

. 188

Art. 21. Master, commander, or supercargo,

not to be removed. Treatment of crew and

passengers,

188

Art. 22. Prizes to be condemned by esta-

blished prize-courts,

190

Art. 23. Damages by men-of-war or priva

teers, to be paid. Commanders of priva

teers to give security,

190

Art. 24. Armed vessels and prizes not to pay

duty, and not to be examined, - · 190

Art. 25. Restrictions on foreign priva

teers,

190

Art. 26. Pirates to be prohibited entering

the ports of either nation. The ships and goods taken by pirates to be seized, 192 Art. 27. The fisheries of either party not to

be interfered with. Ratifications exchanged

within six months, -

192

Second article of the treaty expunged. This

convention to be in force for ten years, 192

Ratification by the first consul of France,

declaring the convention to be in force for

eight years, ·

194

Treaty between the United States of America

and the French Republic. April 30th,

1803,

· 200

Article 1. Recital of the French treaty with

Spain, of October 1 , 1800. Retrocession

from Spain to France of the province of Louisiana. Cession of Louisiana to the

United States, -

200

Art. 2. Islands, &c., included in the cession by

the preceding articl,

202

Art. 3. Inhabitants of the ceded territory in-

corporated with the Union of the United

States upon certain principles, . 202 Art. 4. Commissary to be sent from France

to receive the province of Louisiana, and

pass it over to the United States, 202

Art. 5. When the commissaries ofthe United

States shall have possession, ·

202

Art. 6. United States to execute certain In-

dian treaties agreed upon between Spain

and the Indians, ·

· · 202

Art. 7. Vessels of France and Spain laden

with the productions of their respective countries, entitled to the same privileges with vessels of the United States, during

the space of twelve years. No other ves-

sels entitled to the same privilege during

the said period,

204

Art. 8. After the expiration of twelve years

INDEX .

627

France. vessels of France to be on the footing of

the most favoured nations, -

204

Art. 9. The convention providing for the

payment of debts to citizens of the United

States to be ratified when this treaty is ratified. Another convention to be ratified

at the same time,

· 204

Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged within

204 six months,

France. Art. 2. Articles, produce, and manufactures

of France imported in French vessels to

pay duties as if imported in vessels of the

United States,

278

Art. 3. Goods for transit or exportation not

to pay a discriminating duty in either
· 278 country, Art. 4. Quantities composing the ton of

merchandise of wines, brandies, silks, and

dry-goods, cotton, tobacco, ashes, rice,

Convention between the United States of Ame-
rica and the French Republic. April 30, 206
1803, Article 1. United States engage to pay sixty
millions of francs to France, &c., · 206 Art. 2. A stock to be created equal to sixty
millions of francs, & c. When the first
payment shall be made. French govern-
ment selling stock in Europe to do it upon
the best terms for the United States, 206 Art. 3. Value of the dollar of the United

278 & c .,
Art. 5. Duties of tonnage, &c., not to exceed

in France five francs per ton on American

vessels, ·

280

Art. 6. Consuls and Vice-Consuls of either

nation in the other may cause the arrest of deserters, and detain them for three

months, ·

- 280

Art. 7. Convention to be in force two years

from October 1, 1822. Extra duties at

the end of two years to be diminished by

States fixed . Ratifications to be exchanged

in six months,

208

one-fourth, and so from year to year, &c., 280
Art. 8. Convention to be ratified in one

Convention between the United States and
the French Republic. April 30, 1803, 208

· 280

year,

282

SEexptarraatdeutairetsicllee,vied on either side to be re-

Article 1. Debts due from France to citizens

funded,

282

of the United States to be paid according

to fixed regulations,

· · 208

Art. 2. Debts provided for by the preceding

article,

· - 208

Art. 3. How the said debts are to be paid, 210

Art. 4. What debts are comprehended by the

preceding articles, ·

210

Art. 5. To what cases they are particularly

210 Artto. 6a.pMpilnyi,sters plenipotentiary ofthe United

States to appoint commissioners to examine

claims provisionally,

· 210

Art. 7. To examine the claims, &c., and to

certify those which ought to be admitted, 210

Art. 8. To examine those not prepared for

liquidation,

··

212

Art. 9. The debts to be discharged at the

treasury of the United States with inte-

· 212

rest, Art. 10.

Commercial

agent

of

United

States

at Paris to assist in the examination of

claims, &c. Rejection of a claim to exempt

the United States from paying it, · 212

Art. 11. Decisions to be made in one year,

and no reclamations afterwards,

212

Art. 12. Claims since 30th September, 1800,

may be pursued, and payment demanded,

212

Art. 13. Ratifications to be exchanged in
212 six months,

Convention of Navigation and Commerce be-

tween the United States of America and

His Majesty the King of France and Na-

varre. June 24, 1822,

278

Article 1. Articles, produce, & c., of the

United States imported in American ves-

sels to pay duties as if imported in French 278
vessels,

Convention with France. July 4, 1831 , 430
Article 1. Indemnity to American citizens, 430

430 Art. 2. Payments,

Art. 3. Indemnity to the French govern.

430

ment,

430

Art. 4. Payments,

Art. 5. Other claims by citizens of either

nation may be prosecuted in the respective

countries before competent tribunals, 432

Art. 6. Reciprocal agreement to communi-

cate documents,

·

432

Art. 7. Duties on French wines. Reclama-

tions under the eighth article of the treaty of Louisiana abandoned in consideration

of the stipulations as to duty on French

wines,

·

432

Art. 8. Ratifications to be exchanged within

432

eight months,

Convention for the Surrender of Criminals

between the United States of America and

His Majesty the King of the French. No-

vember 9, 1843,

· 562

Article 1. Persons accused of crimes to be

given up to justice, ·

564

Art. 2. Persons delivered up must be charged

with certain specified crimes, · · 564

Art. 3. Surrender, by whom to be made, 564

Art. 4. Expenses to be borne by the party

making requisition, ·

564

Art. 5. Not to apply to crimes heretofore

committed, or political offences,

564

Art. 6. This convention to continue till abro-

gated. Ratifications to be exchanged within

six months,

564

Great Britain. Provisional Articles between the United States

628

INDEX .

Great Britain.

| Great Britain.

of America and his Britannic Majesty.

November 30, 1782,

54

Article 1. The United States acknowledged

to be free, sovereign, and independent, 55

Art. 2. Boundaries established, ·

55

Art. 3. Right of fishery secured,

56

Art. 4. Debts to be paid,

56

Art. 5. Congress to recommend to the states

restitution of confiscated estates,

56

Art. 6. No further confiscations or prosecu-

tions,

56

Art. 7. Hostilities to cease, and British armies

to be withdrawn,

57

Art. 8. Navigation of the Mississippi to be

free to both nations,

57

Art. 9. Conquests before the arrival of these articles in America to be restored, · 57

Separate article relative to boundary, in case Great Britain shall be put in possession of West Florida. November 30, 1782, 57

Art. 3. Commercial intercourse regulated be.

tween the two parties on the Continent of

America,

· 117

Art. 4. Survey of the Mississippi to be

made,

· 118

Art. 5. Commissioners to be appointed to de-

cide what river is the river St. Croix, in-

tended by the treaty of peace to be the boundary of the United States, · 119 Art. 6. United States to make compensation

to British creditors for losses occasioned by legal impediments to the collection of debts contracted before the peace. Commis.

sioners to be appointed to ascertain the same. Their power and duty. The United

States to pay the sum awarded, - 119

Art. 7. The British government to make compensation to American citizens for illegal

captures oftheir vessels by British subjects.
Commissioners to be appointed to ascertain the same. United States to make compen-

Notes of the treaties between the United

States and Great Britain, ·

54

Armistice, declaring a cessation ofhostilities

sation to British subjects for captures in

their jurisdiction, or by vessels armed in

their ports,

121

between the United States and Great Bri-

tain, January 30, 1783,

58

Art. 8. How expenses shall be paid and vacancy of commissioners supplied, 122

Copy ofthe first and twenty-second prelimi nary articles between France and Great

Art. 9. Alienage not to affect certain titles to

land,

122

Britain, signed at Versailles, the twentieth

Art. 10. Sequestration of debts restrained, 122

January, 1783,

60

Definitive Treaty ofPeace between the United

Art. 11. Reciprocal and perfect liberty ofnavigation and commerce between the respective people under the limitations and con-

States of America and his Britannic Ma-

jesty. September 3, 1783,

80

ditions specified in the following arti

cles,

122

Notes of the decisions of the Courts of the

Art. 12. West India trade regulated, 122

United States in cases arising under the

Art. 13. West India trade regulated, 123

Definitive Treaty of Peace between the

United States and Great Britain,

80

Article 1. United States acknowledged to be

Art. 14. Liberty of commerce between the

British European dominions and the United

States established,

· · 124

independent, Art. 2. Boundaries established,

81

Art. 15. Regulations respecting duties on

81

ships and merchandise, ·

124

Art. 3. Right of fishery secured, Art. 4. Debts to be paid,

82

Art. 16. Consuls may be appointed, 125

82

Art. 17. How to proceed when vessels are

Art. 5. Congress to recommend to the States the restitution of confiscated estates, 82
Art. 6. No further confiscations or prosecu-

captured on suspicion of having enemies'

property or contraband goods, -

125

Art. 18. What articles shall be deemed con-

tions,

83

traband. Stipulations respecting provi-

Art. 7. Hostilities to cease, and British ar-

sions becoming contraband. Regulations

mies to be withdrawn ,

83

Art. 8. Navigation of the Mississippi to be

free to both nations,

83

respecting vessels attempting to enter a blockaded port or found there, - · 125
Art. 19. Privateering regulated, · - 126

Art. 9. Conquests before the arrival of these articles in America to be restored, 83

Art. 20. Pirates not to be protected, and goods

taken by them to be restored, -

126

Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged within

six months,

83

Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation between his Britannic Majesty and the

Art. 21. Subjects or citizens of one party

shall not accept commissions from a foreign

state at war with the other,

127

Art. 22. No reprisal till demand of satisfac-

faction and refusal, -

127

United States of America, by the advice

Art. 23. Ships of war of each to be received

and consent of the Senate. November 19,

1794,

116

Additional note of the decisions of the courts

in the ports of the other. American ves-

sels, in case of stress of weather, may en-

ter British ports,

·

127

oftheUnited States in cases arising underthe

Art. 24. Foreign privateers not to arm in the

definitive treaty with Great Britain, 116

Article 1. Peace established,

· 117

ports of either nation, nor to sell their pro-

duce,

· · 128

Art. 2. His majesty to withdraw troops from

the United States. Privileges allowed to

settlers and traders,

· 117

Art. 25. Regulations respecting prizes and

captures,

· 128

Art. 26. Privileges of the subjects and citi

INDEX.

629

Great Britain.

| Great Britain.

zens of cach party residing in the domi-

nions of the other in case of rupture, 128

Art. 27. Criminals to be delivered up to jus.

tice,

·

129

Art. 28. Limitation. The first ten articles

ofthe treaty to be permanent. The twelfth

article limited to twelve years. Ratifica.

tion,

129

Additional article. May 4, 1796,

130

Twelfth article suspended , · · · 130

Explanatory article,

130

Explanatory article to be added to the treaty
ofamity, commerce and navigation, between the United States and Great Britain. March 15, 1798, · . · · 131

The commissioners under the fifth article re-

leased from particularizing the latitude and

longitude of the river intended by the St.

Croix,

· 131

Convention between the United States and Great Britain. January 8, 1802, · 196

Article 1. The sixth article of the treaty of

November 19, 1791 , ante, page 116, annulled, with exceptions. United States

agree to pay £600,000 sterling, in annual

instalments of £200,000 cach,

196

Art. 2. The fourth article of the treaty of

peace of 1783, relative to private debts, re-

cognised and confirmed, -

197

Art. 3. Commissioners to execute the duties

assigned to them by the 7th article of the

treaty of 1794,

197

Art. 4. Ratification of this convention, 197

Decision of the Commissioners under the

fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent.

November 24, 1814,

250

Moose Island, &c., to belong to the United

States,

·

·

250

Other islands belong to Great Britain, 251

Declaration of the Commissioners under the

fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent.

November 24, 1814,

251

Treaty between His Britannic Majesty and

the United States of America. December

24, 1814,

218

Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace. Terri-

tory, &c., to be restored, with exceptions. Archives and records to be restored, 218

Art. 2. Immediately on ratification, orders to

be sent to armies, & c., to cease hostilities.

Limitation of time of capture in different

latitudes,

· 219

Art. 3. Prisoners of war to be restored, 219

Art. 4. Reference of the boundary established

by the treaty of 1783. Mode of the ap-
pointment of commissioners. Meeting of the commissioners. In cases of disagree.

ment of commissioners, reference to a

friendly power, · ·

219

Art. 5. Commissioners to settle boundaries.

Meeting and proceedings of commission-

ers. In case of difference to be referred

to a friendly power,

220

Art. 6. Doubts as to the boundary from a

point in the forty-fifth degree of north latitude, to be referred to commissioners.

Meeting and duties of the commissioners. In case of disagreement of the commissioners, reference to a friendly power, 221 Art. 7. Commissioners to fix the boundary to the water communication between the

Lakes Huron and Superior and the Lake

of the Woods. In case of disagreement

of commissioners, a reference,

221

Art. 8. The board of commissioners may ap.

point a secretary, and employ surveyors.

Compensation of the commissioners. All grants of land prior to the commencement

of the war falling within the dominions of

the other party to be valid,

· 222

Art. 9. United States to put an end to the war

with the Indian tribes and nations after

the ratification of this treaty, and to restore to such tribes and nations the possessions

they enjoyed or were entitled to in 1811 , 222

Art. 10. Contracting parties shall use their

best endeavours to promote the entire abo-

lition of the slave-trade,

222

Art. 11. Treaty to be binding when ratifica.

tion is exchanged,

223

A Convention to regulate Commerce between

the Territories of the United States and

those of His Britannic Majesty. July 3,

1815,

228

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce between the territories of United States and the British territories in Europe, 228

Art. 2. No higher or other duties on productions of each country than on those of
other foreign countries. Equality of duties on American and British vessels.

Same duties on productions of each coun-

try. Equality of duties and bounties, &c. Drawbacks on the same. Intercourse with the British West Indies and North Ameri-

can continental possessions not affected by

this article,

·

. 228

Art. 3. Vessels of United States may trade

to Calcutta, &c., direct, in articles not en-

tirely prohibited. Citizens of United States not to pay more than is paid on vessels of the most favoured nation. Articles must

be conveyed direct to United States and be unladen. Vessels of United States not to

carry on the coasting trade in the British

East Indies. American vessels may touch

for refreshment,

229

Art. 4. Consuls to reside in the dominions of

each party. How they may be punished.

Particular places excepted from the resi-

dence of Consuls,

230

Art. 5. This convention, when ratified, to be

obligatory for four years. Exchange of

ratifications in six months,

· 230

Declaration ofHis Britannic Majesty's Chargé d'Affaires on the Exchange of Ratifica tions ofthe Convention ofJuly 3d, 1815, 231
All vessels except those of the East India Company excluded from approaching the island of St. Helena, allotted for the future residence of Napoleon Buonaparte, 231

3c

630

INDEX .

Great Britain.

Vessels of the United States must not touch

at St. Helena,

231

Note of the cessation of this restriction on the

30th July, 1831 , ·

231

Arrangement between the United States and Great Britain relative to the Naval Force

of the United States and Great Britain on

the Lakes. April 28, 1817,

231

Naval Force on the Lakes,

231

Lake Ontario,

231

Upper Lakes,

231

Lake Champlain,

231

Other vessels to be dismantled ,

231

Stipulations may cease on six months' no-

tice,

231

Naval force to be restricted so as not to in-

terfere with the proper duties ofthe armed

vessels of the other party, ·

231

Convention with Great Britain. October 20,

1818,

248

Article 1. Definition of the extent of the

common right of fishing, & c., on the coast of the British dominions in America. Ex-

ception as to the Hudson Bay Company.

Renunciation by the United States as to

other fisheries, with exceptions,

248

Art. 2. Definition of the northern boundary

of the United States from the Lake of the

Woods to the Stony Mountain,

249

Art. 3. Country claimed by either party westward of the Stony Mountains to be

free to both parties till October 20, 1828, 249

Art. 4. Convention of London of July 3d,

1815, continued for ten years,

249

Art. 5. Reference to first article of treaty of Ghent. Claims for slaves under the first article of treaty of Ghent. Differences

growing out of the claim for slaves to be

referred to some friendly sovereign or

state, ·

249

Art. 6. The convention obligatory on ex-

change of ratifications, ·

249

Great Britain.

not agreed upon as compensation, commissioners and arbitrators shall fix an

average value. In case they do not agree

the evidence, & c., shall be submitted to

the minister of the mediating power;-his

decision to be final,

·

286

Art. 3. Two commissioners to constitute a board for the examination of claims. His

Britannic Majesty to cause evidence of

the number of slaves carried away to be

produced ,

· 286

Art. 4. The two commissioners to examine

and determine claims,

286

Art. 5. If the commissioners shall not agree

in any case, they shall draw by lot the

name of one of the arbitrators. Final de.

cision to be given,

288

Art. 6. The decision of the commissioners

shall be binding. His Britannic Majesty agrees to pay the sums awarded in specie,
288

Art. 7. Payments for the commissioners and

arbitrators,

- 288

Art. 8. Certified copies of this convention to

be delivered to the minister of the mediat-

ing power,

· 238

Documents referred to in the treaty, 290

Letter: Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middleton.

April 22, 1822,

290

Award of the Emperor of Russia. April 22,

1822,

292

Letter : Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middleton.

April 27, 1822,

294

Convention with Great Britain. August 6,

1827, ·

- 360

Article 1. Third article of convention of 3d

of October 1818, relative to the territory

westward of the Stony Mountains, indefi-

nitely extended,

360

Art. 2. Convention may be annulled on due

notice of twelve months by either party,

360

Art. 3. Certain claims not to be affected by

this treaty,

- 360

Decision of the Commissioners under the

Sixth Article of the Treaty of Ghent.

June 18, 1822,

· · 274

Boundary of the United States to be esta-

blished,

·

274

Description of the boundary of the United

States,

274

Islands, ·

276

Treaty with Great Britain. July 12, 1822, 282

Award of his Majesty the Emperor of all

the Russias, under the fifth article of the

Convention of October 20, 1818,

282

Plenipotentiaries of Russia, United States,

and Great Britain, ·

284

Article 1. Agreement of the plenipotentiaries.

Arbitrators and commissioners to be ap-

pointed to meet in the city of Washington.

Oath or affirmation to be taken in the

presence of each other. Vacancies to be

filled up,

284

Art. 2. If an average value of each slave be

Renewal ofcommercial convention with Great

Britain. Aug. 6, 1827,

.. 361

Article 1. Provisions of the convention of 3d

July 1815, further continued for ten years, 361

Art. 2. Either party, at any time after ten

years, may abrogate this convention, giv.

ing twelve months' notice,

362

Convention between the United States and

Great Britain. Sept. 29, 1827, . 362

Article 1. Reference of differences as to the

boundary between American and British

dominions to a friendly power,

363

Art. 2. Statements of the respective cases to

be drawn up,

363

Art. 3. Each of the contracting parties shall

communicate to the other the evidence to

be offered,

363

Art. 4. Maps to be annexed to the statements 364

Art. 5. Statements, & c. to be delivered to the

arbitrating power within two years, 364

INDEX .

631

Great Britain.

Greece.

Art. 6. In case the arbiter should desire fur-

Art. 2. Tonnage duties, &c., to be on the

ther evidence, mode of producing it, 364

Art. 7. The decision of the arbitrators shall

be final,

··

365

footing of the most favored nation, - 498 Art. 3. Vessels of the United States may im-
port into Greece whatever Greek vessels

Art. 8. Ratifications to be exchanged within

nine months, · ·

· 365

may import. Reciprocal as to importa-

tions in Greek vessels,

500

Convention between the United States of Ame rica and Great Britain. Nov. 13, 1827, 344
Article 1. One million two hundred and four
thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars to be paid by Great Britain to the United States, to carry into effect the first article

of the treaty of Ghent, of Dec. 24, 1814, 344

Art. 2. Convention being fulfilled, annulled except part of the third article, · 344
Art. 3. When the sums are to be paid by

Great Britain,

344

Art. 4. The sums to be in full of all claims

under the convention,

345

Art. 5. Papers of the commission,

345

Art. 6. Ratification of this convention, 345

Art. 4. Vessels of the United States may ex-

port from Greece whatever Greek vessels

may export. Reciprocal as to exportations in Greek vessels from the United States, 500

Art. 5. Coasting trade excepted,

500

Art. 6. Neither party to grant any preference

in its purchases to importations in its own vessels, or in the vessels of other nations, 500

Art. 7. No other or higher duties to be im-

posed than are imposed on vessels of other powers, except the reservations in the fifth

article,

500

Art. 8. Prohibitions not to be imposed on the

productions of either power,

502

Art. 9. All privileges of transit to become

equal,

502

Art. 10. Vessels of either party, entering the

A Treaty to settle and define the Boundaries

ports of the other, but not wishing to un-

between the Territories of the United States and the Possessions of Her Britannic Majesty in North America ; for the final sup pression of the African Slave Trade ; and

load, may depart. They must conform to

custom-house regulations,

· 502

Art. 11. Vessels unloading part oftheir cargo

may depart with the remainder without

for giving up Criminals, fugitives from

justice, in certain cases. Aug. 9, 1842, 554

Article 1. Boundary line between the United

States and the British possessions, 555

Art. 2. Description of the boundary line, 555

Art. 3. Navigation of the river St. John to be

free to both parties,

556

Art. 4. Grants of land, & c., within the terri-

paying duties. Duties chargeable on ves.

sels, where to be paid,

502

Art. 12. Consuls, &c. Archives of consuls to

be exempt from search. Consuls, & c., to judge and arbitrate in certain cases, 504
Art. 13. Consuls may require the assistance of local authorities for the arrest of de-

serters. Deserters, when arrested, how to

tory, confirmed to persons in possession of

such grants,

556

Art. 5. Distribution of " disputed territory

fund,"

557

be disposed of. Deserters guilty of a crime, 504
Art. 14. Aid to shipwrecked vessels, &c. 506 Art. 15. Regulations as to quarantine, 506

Art. 6. Commissioners to be appointed to

mark the line between the St. Croix and

St. Lawrence rivers,

· 557

Art. 16. Regulations as to blockade, 506

Art. 17. Duration of the treaty to be for ten

years, &c.

506

Art. 7. Certain waters free to both parties, 557

Art. 18. Ratifications to be exchanged within

twelve months,

· 508

Art. 8. Mutual agreement for the suppression

of the slave trade,

558

Art. 9. Parties to unite in remonstrances with

other powers, within whose dominions a

market is found for slaves,

558

Art. 10. Criminals to be delivered up to either

party upon requisition,

558

Art. 11. Treaty to be in force for five years,

and afterwards until one or the other party

shall signify a wish to terminate it. Tenth

article in force until either party shall wish

to terminate it,

559

Art. 12. Ratifications to be exchanged within

six months,

559

Greece.

Hanover.

Treaty with the King of Hanover. May 20,

1840, ·

534

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. Inhabitants of the respective countries to be allowed admission into the territories of the other. Residence to

be permitted. Allowed to manage their

business. Free access to tribunals of jus.

tice,

534

Art. 2. Duties to be the same as on national

vessels. Vessels to which this privilege

extends. Same duties on imports, whether in vessels of the United States or of Hano-

ver. Same duties on exports, -

536

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and His Majesty the KingofGreece. Dec. 10-22, 1837, 498
Article 1. Ports of either party open to the other. Citizens of each party at liberty to reside in the territories of the other, 498

Art. 3. Same duties on importation of certain

articles, the growth of either party, & c.

Exportations. All prohibitions shall be

general,

· 536

Art. 4. Coasting trade excepted,

536

Art. 5. No preference of importations to be

given,

- 536

632

INDEX .

Hanover.

Art. 6. Consuls. Their authority and privi-

leges. Consuls to judge and arbitrate cases. Contending parties not to be de-

prived of their right to resort to the tribu-

nals of their country on their return. Consuls may require the aid of the local

authorities to arrest deserters. Deserters, how to be disposed of, · · - 538

Art. 7. Power to dispose of personal property.

Personal representatives may succeed to property by testament or ab intestato. Possession to be had, on payment of certain

duties. Care of property in the absence of representatives. In case of several claim-

ants. In case of real estate, alien heirs to be allowed time to dispose thereof. Ef.

fects of persons removing from their domi.

cile to be exempt from duties,

538

Art. 8. Right to wrecks abolished. Assist

ance in case of shipwreck. Salvage payable. Duties in case of vessels unloading

to repair. The cargo to be liable for stor-

age on goods landed to repair vessels, 540

Art. 9. The treaty to continue twelve years, and for one year after notice of either party of desire to terminate it, . 540

Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged in ten

months. The signatures to the treaty in

two languages not to be cited as a prece-

dent,

540

Hanseatic Republics.

Convention of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, between the United States of

America and the free Hanseatic Republics

of Lubeck, Bremen and Hamburg. De-

cember 20, 1827,

· 366

Article 1. Imports,

366

Art. 2. No higher duties to be paid by either

ofthe contracting parties than are paid by

other powers, ·

·

368

Art. 3. No priority or preference to be given

by either party,

368

Art. 4. What shall be vessels of Lubeck, Bre-

men, or Hamburg,

368

Art. 5. Vessels of the Hanseatic Republics

coming to the United States, ·

368

Art. 6. Merchants may manage their own

affairs, submitting themselves to the laws,

& c.,

·

- 368

Art. 7. Power to dispose of personal goods, 370

Art. 8. Special protection to persons and pro-

perty,

370

Art. 9. Favours granted to other nations to

be common to both parties,

370

Art. 10. Convention to be in force for twelve

years,

370

Art. 11. To be ratified within nine months.

372

Additional Article to the Convention of

Friendship, Commerce and Navigation,

concluded at Washington, on the 20th day of December, 1827, between the United

States of America and the Hanseatic Re-

publics of Lubeck, Bremen and Hamburg.

June 4, 1828, .

386

Hanseatic Republics.

Consuls, & c., authorized to arrest deserters, 386

Assistance to be afforded to Consuls, - 388

If a deserter has committed any offence, his surrender to be delayed, · · · 388

This article to have the same force as if

forming part of the convention of 1827.

Ratifications to be exchanged within nine

months, . ·

- 388

Mexico.

Treaty of Limits between the United States

of America and the United Mexican States.

January 12, 1828, ·

· 372

Article 1. Boundary the same as fixed by
treaty of Washington, February 22, 1817, 374

Art. 2. Boundary to begin on the Gulf of Mexico, and end on the South Sea, in lati-

tude 42. Islands in the Sabine, & c., to be.

long to the United States,

374

Art. 3. Commissioners to be appointed to run

the line, -

374

Art. 4. Ratifications to be exchanged in four

months,

5 376

Additional Article. April 5, 1831 , - 376

Ratifications of the treaty of January 12, 1828, to be exchanged at the city of Wash.

ington, within the term of one year, 376

Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation

between the United States of America and

the United Mexican States. April 5,

1831 ,

410

Article 1. Peace and friendship between

both nations,

·

410

Art. 2. The footing of the most favoured

nation secured to both parties, . 410

Art. 3. Entry into the ports of each other coasting trade excepted, · · - 410

Art. 4. Duties on the products of the par-

ties. Export duties and prohibitions, 412

Art. 5. Tonnage duties the same on vessels

of either party,

· 412

Art. 6. Import duties. Export duties, boun-

ties, and drawbacks, ·-

412

Art. 7. Merchants, & c., put on the same footing in the ports of either party, 412

Art. 8. Embargoes, detention, compensation

for,

412

Art. 9. Citizens of either party exempted

from service in the army or navy, 414

Art. 10. Citizens seeking refuge in the ports

of either party,

414

Art. 11. Delivery of vessels, & c., captured

by pirates,

414

Art. 12. Shipwrecks,

414

Art. 13. Succession to personal estate, and

disposal thereof,

· 414

Art. 14. Persons and property to be pro-

tected,

416

Art. 15. Security as to religion in Mexico.

In the United States,

416

Art. 16. Security to vessels sailing to or from enemies' ports. Free ships make free

goods. Limitation of the principle, 416

Art. 17. Where neutral flag protects enemies'

property,

418

INDEX.

633

Mexico.

Art. 18. Contraband goods excepted and de-

fined,

418

Art. 19. Blockade defined,

418

Art. 20. Contraband liable to condemnation.

Vessels not to be detained if contraband

articles be delivered up,

418

Art. 21. Notice of blockade. Free egress

allowed in certain cases,

418

Art. 22. Examination of vessels at sea, 420

Art. 23. Passports and sea-letters during

war; ifnot provided, vessels, & c., to be ad-

judged lawful prizes, Art. 24. Vessels under convoy,

420 · 420

Art. 25. Prize courts, -

420

Art. 26. In the event of war between the two

countries, removal of property and persons

to be allowed,

422

Art. 27. Immunities of merchants and public

agents,

422

Art. 28. Consuls,

422

Art. 29. Deserters from vessels,

422

Art. 30. Arrest and detention of deserters, 424

Art. 31. A consular convention to be entered

into,

·

424

Art. 32. Interior commerce, routes and es-

corts,

424

Art. 33. Indian hostilities to be prevented.

Prisoners made by Indians to be liberated, 424

Art. 34. Points adjusted between the parties. Treaty in force for eight years. Harmony of the parties not to be interrupted by the acts of individuals. Demand of satisfac-

tion to precede hostilities. Nothing in this treaty to operate contrary to treaties with other powers. Ratifications to be ex-

changed within one year, or earlier, 426

Additional Article. April 5, 1831 , · 428

Substitution for the fifth and sixth articles of

the treaty of April 5, 1831,

428

Duties to be equal on the productions and

manufactures of Mexico to those paid on

like goods of other nations in the ports of

the United States,

428

Convention with Mexico. April 3, 1835, 464
Commissioners and surveyors to be appointed to run the boundary line, · · 464

Convention for the Adjustment of Claims of

Citizens ofthe United States of America on

the Government of the Mexican Republic.

April 11 , 1839,

526

Article 1. Certain claims to be referred to a

board of four commissioners. Manner of

their appointment,

528

Art. 2. The board to have two secretaries,

& c.,

528

Art. 3. Meeting of the board,

528

Art. 4. Documents to be delivered to the

board, ·

528

Art. 5. The commissioners to decide on the

justice ofthe claims,

530

Art. 6. Mexico to be at liberty to issue treasury notes for the amount found due, 530
Art. 7. In case of difference between the

commissioners as to the claims, the docu-

Mexico.

ments shall be referred to the king of

Prussia,

530

Art. 8. The King of Prussia to be invited to

appoint an umpire, -

530

Art. 9. In case the King of Prussia declines

to appoint an umpire, Her Britannic Ma-

jesty to be invited to appoint ; and in case

she declines, the King of the Netherlands

to be invited to appoint an umpire, - 532

Art. 10. The decision of the umpire to be

final,

532

Art. 11. Mexico to be exonerated from certain

claims,

532

Art. 12. Compensation to the commissioners

and their secretaries,

532

Art. 13. Ratifications to be exchanged within

twelve months, ·

532

Convention further to provide for the pay-

ment of awards in favour of claimants under the Convention between the United

States and the Mexican Republic of 11th

of April, 1839. January 30, 1843 , - 560

Article 1. Mexico to pay all interest due on

the 30th April, 1843,

560

Art. 2. Principal and interest to be paid in

five years, ·

560

Art. 3. Payments to be made in the city of

Mexico in gold or silver,

560

Art. 4. Mexico pledges the proceeds of direct

taxes,

560

Art. 5. Mexico to pay two and a half per

cent. on each payment to cover charges, 562 Art. 6. A new convention to be entered into

for the settlement of all claims on Mexico,

562

Art. 7. Ratifications, ·

562

Morocco.

Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United States of America and his Imperial

Majestythe Emperor of Morocco. January

1787,

· · 100

Article 1. Emperor's consent to the treaty, 100

Art. 2. Neither party shall take commissions

from the enemy of the other, ·

101

Art. 3. Regulations in case of capture, 101

Art. 4. Signal or pass to be given to vessels, 101

Art. 5. How vessels shall be examined in time

of war,

101

Art. 6. Citizens of the United States captured,

to be released,

101

Art. 7. Vessels wanting supplies to be fur.

nished,

101

Art. 8. Provision in case of misfortune, 101

Art. 9. Regulation in case of shipwreck and

being forced into port,

101

Art. 10. Vessels protected in certain cases,

102

Art. 11. Privileges of vessels in case of war, 102

Art. 12. Ships of war belonging to the United

States not to be examined,

102

Art. 13. Ships of war to be saluted, 102

Art. 14. Commerce on the footing of the most

favoured nation,

102

VOL. VIII. 80

634

INDEX.

Morocco.

Art. 15. Privileges of merchants, · 102

Art. 16. In case of war, prisoners not to be

enslaved, but exchanged,

· 102

Art. 17. Merchants may buy and sell all

goods except those prohibited to other

christian nations, ·

· 103

Art. 18. Goods to be examined before sent on

board, and not after, unless in case of fraud, 103

Art. 19. Vessels not to be detained,

103

Art. 20. How disputes shall be settled, 103

Art. 21. How crimes shall be punished, 103 Art. 22. How estates of deceased citizens

shall be disposed of,

103

Art. 23. Consuls and their privileges, · 103

Art. 24. Regulations in case of war, · 104

Art. 25. This treaty to be in force for fifty

years,

· 104

Treaty with Morocco. September 16, 1836, 484

Article 1. Mutual agreement between the

parties to the treaty,

484

Art. 2. Neither party to take commissions

from an enemy,

484

Art. 3. Persons, & c., of one party captured in

an enemy's vessel to be released,

484

Art. 4. Vessels to have passports, · 484

Art. 5. Visits of vessels at sea,

484

Art. 6. American citizens and effects to be

restored,

484

Art. 7. Vessels in port to be supplied with

provisions, & c.,

· 485

Art. 8. No duty on vessels of the United

States putting in for repair,

485

Art. 9. Stranded vessels to be protected, 485

Art. 10. Vessels engaged within gunshot of

forts to be protected,

· 485

Art. 11. Enemics' vessels not allowed to fol-

low for twenty-four hours,

485

Art. 12. Ships of war not to be examined in

port,

·

485

Art. 13. Salutes to be returned,

485

Art. 14. American commerce on the most

favoured footing, ·

·· 485

Art. 15. Employment of interpreters, &c. , 485

Art. 16 Exchange of prisoners in case of

war,

485

Art. 17. No compulsion in buying or selling

goods,

486

Art. 18. No examination of goods on board,

except where contraband is proved, - 486 Art. 19. No detention of vessels, - 486

Art. 20. Disputes between Americans, & c., to be decided by the consul, & c. Assist-

ance to be rendered to the consul, 486

Art. 21. Killing, & c., punished by the law

of the country,

486

Art. 22. Persons dying intestate, care of their

effects to be taken,

·

486

Art. 23. Residence ofthe consul to be where

he thinks proper, and to be protected, 486

Art. 24. No appeal to arms unless refusal of friendly arrangement. In case of war,

nine months allowed to settle affairs, and

to remove, ·

486

Art. 25. Treaty to remain in force for fifty

years,

· 487

Morocco.

Final ratification reserved for the President

of the United States,

- 487

Muscat.

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States and the Sultan of Muscat

and his Dependencies. June 24, 1837, 458

Article 1. Perpetual peace between the two

nations,

458

Art. 2. Citizens of the United States may en-

ter all the ports of the Sultan with their

cargoes, and trade, &c., -

458

Art. 3. Duties payable by vessels of the

United States,

458

Art. 4. Americans to pay no other duties than

are paid by the most favoured nation, 458

Art. 5. Assistance in case of shipwreck, 458

Art. 6. American citizens residing in the ports

of the Sultan not to be taxed, ·

458

Art. 7. Citizens ofthe United States taken by

pirates, to be set at liberty,

459

Art. 8. Vessels of the Sultan in the ports of

the United States to pay no higher duties

than are paid by the most favoured nation, 459

Art. 9. Consuls may be appointed,

459

Final ratification reserved to the President

of the United States,

459

Netherlands.

Treaty withthe United Netherlands. October

8, 1782, -

32

Article 1. Peace and friendship between the

two nations,

32

Art. 2. Subjects of the Netherlands to have

the same privileges in the United States as

the most favoured nations,

32

Art. 3. Citizens of the United States to have

the same privileges in the United Nether. lands as the most favoured nations, - 34

Art. 4. Liberty of conscience secured to the

citizens of each party in each other's do-

minions,

· 34

Art. 5. Both parties to protect vessels of the other in their dominions, to restore them

when captured, and to convoy them in cer-

tain cases, ·

· 34

Art. 6. Citizens of either party may dispose

of their estates by will or otherwise. Re-

gulations, · ·

36-

Art. 7. Subjects of either party may employ

such advocates as they think proper, 36

Art. 8. Vessels not to be detained,

36

Art. 9. Privileges of citizens in transacting

business,

38

Art. 10. Merchant ships, if required, shall ex-

hibit sea-letters, &c.; and if no contraband

goods on board, shall pass,

38

Art. 11. Mode ofproceeding when contraband

goods are on board, ·

· 38

Art. 12. Goods found in an enemy's ship

liable to confiscation, unless put on board

before the declaration of war, or within six

months, -

40

Art. 13. Vessels of war or privateers to do no

injury to either party. Ifthey do, repara-

tion to be made,

40

INDEX .

635

Netherlands.

| Netherlands.

Art. 14. Captains of privateers to give secu

rity,

40

Art. 15. Goods rescued from pirates to be rc-

stored, ·

· 40

Art. 16. In case of shipwreck, relief to be

afforded,

42

Art. 17. Vessels driven in by stress of wea-

ther to be protected,

· 42

Art. 18. In case of war, nine months to be

allowed to citizens residing in the other's dominions to sell and transport their effects,
42

Art. 6. This treaty to continue ten years, and

further until twelve months' notice of a dc.

sire to terminate it,

526

Art. 7. Ratifications to be exchanged in six

months,

526

New Granada.

Postal Convention between the United States

of North America and the Republic of New

Granada. March 6, 1844, -

566

Article 1. Transmission of the United States'

Art. 19. Citizens of neither party to take

commissions or letters of marque from

powers at war with the other,

44

Art. 20. Vessels coming on the coast, or en-

tering the ports of either party, how to be

treated,

··

· 44

Art. 21. Consuls to be allowed in the ports

of either party, ·

44

Art. 22. This treaty not to derogate from any

treaty with France,

44

Art. 23. The United Netherlands to aid the

United States in forming treaties with the

Barbary powers,

44

Art. 24. What goods shall be deemed contra-

band,

46

Art. 25. Regulations respecting passports, 46

Art. 26. How ships are to be treated when

met by ships of war or privateers,

48

Art. 27. Merchants and commanders of ves-

sels may take into their service seamen and

others belonging to either nation,

48

Art. 28. The affair of refraction to be regu-

lated in all equity and justice by magis.

trates,

48

Art. 29. Ratification,

48

mail across the Isthmus of Panama, 566

Art. 2. Postage on letters, & c., that do not

cross the Isthmus,

·

566

Art. 3. Disposition ofthe mail after its arrival

in Panama,

·

566

Art. 4. Transmission of the mail to Chagres

or Porto Bello from Panama,

566

Art. 5. Payment for transmission of the mail, 568

Art. 6. Packets to carry letters and papers

between the two countries without compen

sation, ·

568

Art. 7. United States' packets to carry letters,

&c., for one part of New Granada without

charge,

568

Art. 8. Duties on coals used for United States'

steamers ,

568

Art. 9. Advantages arising from this conven-

tion to be considered as compensation for

the obligations,

568

Art. 10. Convention to go into effect when the ratifications are known to have been

made,

568

Art. 11. Duration of the convention, · 568

Convention between the States- General of the United Netherlands and the United States

of America, concerning vessels recaptured.

October 8, 1782,

50

Article 1. When vessels of either nation shall

be recaptured, how they shall be restored, 50

Art. 2. When they shall belong to the captor, 50

Art. 3. When recaptured by vessels of war,

they shall be restored,

· 52

Art. 4. Restitution to be made in reasonable

time,

·

52

Art. 5. Vessels of war and privateers to be

admitted with their prizes into the ports of

both nations, ·

52

Art. 6. Each nation may make regulations,

52

Treaty with the King of the Netherlands.

January 19, 1839,

524

Article 1. Duties on goods imported or exported. Bounties granted by either party

Ottoman Porte.

Treaty with the Ottoman Porte. May 7, 1830, 408

Article 1. Merchants of the parties put, as to

duties, on the footing of the most favored

nation, ·

· 408

Art. 2. Consuls, -

408

Art. 3. Employment of brokers. Visit of

American vessels,

408

Art. 4. Settlement of disputes between the

subjects and citizens of the parties, 409

Art. 5. The United States' flag to be respect.

ed-not to be lent to others,

409

Art. 6. Vessels of war shall exhibit towards

each other courteous conduct, and the same

towards merchant vessels,

· 409

Art. 7. Vessels of the United States shall have

the privilege to pass the Dardanelles, 409

Art. 8. Vessels of either party shall not be

impressed, ·

· 409

Art. 9. Wrecks. Exchange of ratifications, 409

to its own vessels, to be granted to vessels

of the other,

524

Art. 2. Tonnage duties, & c.,

524

Art. 3. Privileges of consuls,

524

Art. 4. What shall be considered national

vessels,

526

Art. 5. Assistance to shipwrecked vessels, 526

Peru.
General Convention of Peace, Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation, between the United States and the Peru-Bolivian Confederation. November 13, 1839. - 487
Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace, · 488

636

INDEX .

Peru.

Art. 2. Favours granted to other nations shall

become common to both nations,

488

Art. 3. Citizens placed on the footing of the

most favoured nation with regard to com-

merce and navigation. Coasting trade ex-

cepted,

488

Art. 4. Merchants and others to manage their

own business. Citizens of neither party

liable to embargo, & c.

488

Art. 5. Protection of citizens of either party,

seeking refuge in the dominions of the

other,

· 488

Art. 6. Vessels captured by pirates to be re-

stored,

489

Art. 7. Assistance in case of wreck, 489

Art. 8. Power to dispose of personal estate and real estate by testament, & c., · 489
Art. 9. Protection of persons and property.

Rights of citizens to be enjoyed unless con-

stitutionally withdrawn, ·

· 489

Art. 10. Liberty of conscience secured. Rites

ofburial,

· · 490

Art. 11. Citizens of both parties to have a

right to trade with the enemies of the other.

Free ships to make free goods, contraband

ofwar excepted. Proviso,

490

Art. 12. Qualification of the principle as to

neutral property,

· 490

Art. 13. Liberty of commerce and navigation

to extend to all goods except contraband. Specification of articles which shall be

deemed contraband,

491

Art. 14. All kinds of merchandise except con-

traband, free, -

491

Art. 15. Contraband goods, only, liable to confiscation. Vessels not to be detained

unless the articles are so great, & c., that

they cannot be removed on board the cap.

turing vessel, ·

· 491

Art. 16. Blockade,

491

Art. 17. Regulation of visits at sea, 492

Art. 18. In case of war, vessels to be provided

with sea-letters. If not so provided, may

be adjudged lawful prize,

492

Art. 19. Vessels under convoy not to be sub-

ject to examination,

493

Art. 20. Prize courts only to take cognizance

of prizes,

493

Art. 21. Citizens of either party not to engage in privateering against the other, · 493
Art. 22. In the event of war between the par-

ties, the citizens of either nation may re-

main, &c. If suspected of mal-practices,

may be ordered to depart. Exceptions, 493

Art. 23. Property of citizens not to be seques-

tered,

493

Art. 24. Immunities of public agents, 494

Art. 25. Consuls,

494

Art. 26. Consuls to exhibit their commissions,

494

Art. 27. Privileges of consuls. Consular ar-

chives to be inviolable,

494

Art. 28. Consuls may require assistance. Deserters, how to be disposed of, - · 494
Art. 29. Consular convention to be framed, 495

Art. 30. Duration of the treaty. Citizens

Peru.

liable for violations of this treaty. War

not to be declared until redress has been

demanded. Other treaties not to be affect-

ed by this. Ratifications to be exchanged

within eighteen months, -

- 495

Convention with Peru. March 17, 1841, 552

Article 1. Peru to pay the United States

$300,000,

552

Art. 2. To be paid in ten annual instalments, 552
Art. 3. Interest at the rate of four per cent., 552

Art. 4. To be paid in hard dollars, - 552 Art. 5. No further demand for claims to be

presented by S. Larned. Claims subse.

quent to those presented by Mr. Larned to
the government of Peru to be examined, 553

Art. 6. Optional with Peru to pay with orders on the custom-house at Callao, · 553
Art. 7. To be ratified within two years, 553

Portugal.

Treaty with Portugal. August 26, 1840, 542

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce

and navigation. Liberty of residents se-

cured,

·

· 542

Art. 2. Vessels of either party arriving in the

ports of the other, put on the footing of

national vessels,

542

Art. 3. No other or higher duties to be im-

posed on importations, &c. All prohibi-

tions to be general. No other or higher

duties imposed on exportations to the

United States than payable on exportations

to other countries. This stipulation not to

interfere with the special stipulation en-

tered into with France by the United

States,

542

Art. 4. Same duties on importations, &c., in

vessels of either party,

544

Art. 5. Favours granted by either party to other nations, to become common, 544

Art. 6. No higher or other duties on exporta.

tions, & c., than are paid by national ves

sels. Bounties, &c., the same, in vessels

of either party,

· 544

Art. 7. Coasting trade excepted, -

546

Art. 8. The foregoing stipulations not to be

applicable to certain ports. Said ports,

& c., when opened to any foreign nation, to

be open to the United States,

546

Art. 9. Protection to vessels seeking refuge

or asylum, in the rivers, bays, & c., or territories of the other, for stress of weather,

or pursuit of pirates,

546

Art. 10. Each party to have Consuls, & c., in

each other's ports. Consuls engaging in commerce. Consuls violating the laws.

Consular archives to be inviolable. Dis-

putes between Americans, &c., to be de-

cided by the Consul. Contending parties

may resort to the judicial authorities of

their own country,

546

Art. 11. Consuls, &c., may require the aid

INDEX.

637

Portugal.

ofcivil authorities to arrest deserters. How

the demand for deserters shall be made.

Deserters, when arrested, how to be dis

posed of, -

548

Art. 12. Power to dispose of personal goods,

&c. In case of persons holding real estate

within the territories of either power, to be allowed time to sell the same, - · 548

Prussia.

take commissions or letters of marque from

a state at war with the other,

94

Art. 21. Regulations to be observed in case

of war against a common enemy,

94

Art. 22. Convoys in certain cases,

94

Art. 23. In case of war nine months to be

allowed to citizens to settle their affairs. Principles of conducting war. No com-

Art. 13. Favours in navigation, &c., to be-

come common,

548

Art. 14. Duration of the treaty. Citizens

personally responsible for violations of the

treaty Reprisals not to be authorized, nor war declared, until a statement of in-

juries shall be presented. Ratifications to

be exchanged within eight months, - 550

Prussia.

A Treaty of Amity and Commerce between

his Majesty the King of Prussia and the

United States of America. July, August,

and September, 1783,

84

Article 1. Peace and friendship between the

two nations,

84

Art. 2. Subjects of Prussia entitled to the

same privileges in United States as the

most favoured nation,

84

Art. 3. Citizens of United States entitled to

the same privileges in Prussia as the most

favoured nation, ·

84

Art. 4. Regulations of commercial inter-

course,

86

Art. 5. Vessels not to be forced to unload

merchandise,

86

Art. 6. Goods to be examined before loaded,

and not after, unless in case offraud, 86

Art. 7. Each party to protect the vessels and

effects of the other in their dominions, 86

Art. 8. Vessels coming on the coast or enter-

ing the ports of either nation, how to be

treated, ·

·

88

Art 9. In case of shipwrecks, relief to be

afforded, and goods restored, ·

88

Art. 10. The citizens or subjects of either party may dispose of their personal estate

by will or otherwise. Regulations concern-

ing the same, -

88

Art. 11. Liberty of conscience secured, 90

Art. 12. Liberty for either party to trade with a nation at war with the other. Free

ships make free goods,

90

Art. 13. No goods shall be deemed contra-

band so as to justify confiscation ; but ves-

sels may be detained,

90

Art. 14. Vessels to be furnished with sea-

letters or passports,

90

Art. 15. How vessels are to be treated when

met by ships of war or privateers, · 92

Art. 16. Vessels not to be detained by em-

bargo, & c.,

92

Art. 17. When recaptured vessels shall be

restored, -

92

Art. 18. Vessels driven by stress of weather

into port, shall be protected, ·

92

Art. 19. Vessels of war may carry prizes into

the ports of each nation, -

92

Art. 20. Citizens of either party shall not

missions to be granted to private armed

vessels,

94

Art. 24. Treatment of prisoners of war regu.

lated,

96

Art. 25. Consuls to be allowed in the ports

of each nation, ·

98

Art. 26. All favours granted to another na.

tion by one party, shall become common to

the other,

· 98

Art. 27. Treaty to be in force for ten years, 98

Treaty ofAmity and Commerce with the King

ofPrussia. July 11 , 1799,

162

Article 1. Peace and friendship established, 162

Art. 2. Privileges of Prussia. Subjects trad-

ing to the United States, -

162

Art. 3. Commercial privileges, ·

162

Art. 4. Commercial privileges, ·

164

Art. 5. Unloading of vessels, ·

164

Art. 6. Unloading of vessels,

164

Art. 7. Protection of property within the ju-

risdiction of each party, -

164

Art. 8. Vessels coming on the coast, or enter.

ing a port, without wishing to break bulk, 164

Art. 9. Shipwrecks, .

166

Art. 10. Alienation of real estate. Real

estate within the dominions of one party

falling upon the subjects of the other, 166

Art. 11. Freedom of conscience, worship,

& c. ,

166

Art. 12. Relative to the principle of free

ships making free goods,

168

Art. 13. Of contraband,

. 168

Art. 14. Documents to be carried by vessels

in time of war,

168

Art. 15. Manner of visiting vessels not under

convoy,

· 168

Art. 16. Of embargoes. Seizures, detentions

and arrests, to be made in due course of

law,

·

168

Art. 17. Salvage on recapture, when one of

the powers is neutral, Art. 18. Right of asylum, ·
Art. 19. Bringing in of prizes,

· 172 172
· 172

Art. 20. The subjects of one party shall not

take letters of marque from the enemy of

the other, & c.,

· · 172

Art. 21. Rules applicable to the prosecution

of a common war, .

· · 172

Art. 22. The ships of war of one party shall

protect the vessels of another,

174

Art. 23. Regulations for softening the effects

of war between the two parties, · 174

Art. 24. Regulations relative to prisoners of

war, & c. ,

- 174

Art. 25. Consuls, & c., allowed to reside in

the dominions of the parties, ·

176

3D

638

INDEX .

Prussia.

Russia.

Art. 26. Favours granted to others, to extend

to the parties, -

176

Art. 27. Limitation of treaty to ten years

from the exchange of ratifications, - 176

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and his Majestythe King of Prussia. May 1 , 1828, 378

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce be-

tween the territories of both parties, 378

Art. 2. Freedom of navigation, and perfect

reciprocity,

378

Art. 3. All articles of commerce to pay the

same duties in vessels ofeither nation, 378

Art. 4. Stipulations of the two preceding arti-

cles to apply to vessels of Prussia and the United States coming from any ports, 380

Art. 5. Produce of the parties put on the most

favourable footing, -

380

Art. 4. The same rule to prevail, whether such vessels arrive from their own or fo-

reign ports,

446

Art. 5. Merchandise which may be imported

in national vessels, may be so in the vessels

of either party,

446

Art. 6. No higher duties shall be imposed than on the same articles from other countries. All prohibitions shall be general,

446

Art. 7. The coasting trade excepted from

articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,

448

Art. 8. Consuls, &c. Their authority and

privileges. Consuls to judge and arbitrate

in certain cases, ·

448

Art. 9. Consuls, & c., may require the aid of local authorities to arrest deserters. De-

serters to be sent back within four months, 448

Art. 6. Vessels of parties put on the same

footing as to exportations,

380

Art. 7. Coastwise navigation excepted, 380

Art. 8. Neither party to give any preference

to goods on account of the importing bot-

tom,

382

Art. 9. Prospective provision for maintaining

the most favoured footing,

382

Art. 10. Consuls,

382

Art. 10. Succession to personal estate, and

disposal thereof, ·

448

Art. 11. Favours granted to other nations

shall become common,

450

Art. 12. This treaty to extend to Poland, and

to continue in force until January 1 , 1839,

450

Art. 13. Ratifications to be exchanged within

twelve months,

450

Art. 11. Consuls, & c., may require the aid

of local authorities, ·

382

Art. 12. Certain stipulations in former treaties

revived. Security of neutral navigation to

be the subject of future treaty,

384

Art. 13. Vessels entering blockaded parts, 384

Art. 14. Provisions as to personal property

of citizens, & c.,

384

Art. 15. Treaty to remain in force for twelve

years, & c.,

386

Art. 16. Ratifications to be exchanged within

nine months,

386

Russia.

Convention between the United States of Ame-

rica and Russia. April , 1824, - 302

Article 1. Navigation and fisheries ofthe Pacific to be free to both parties, - · 302
Art. 2. Illicit trade to be prevented, 302
Art. 3. No establishment to be formed here-

after, by citizens of the United States north

of 54 degrees 40 minutes, or by Russia

south of the same latitude,

304

Art. 4. Interior seas to be free to both nations

for ten years,

304

Art. 5 Certain articles always to be excepted

from this commerce,

304

Art. 6. Ratifications to be exchanged in ten

months, ·

· 304

Treaty with Russia. December , 1832 ,

444

Article 1. Liberty of commerce and naviga

tion ,

444

Art. 2. Tonnage duties reciprocally on the

footing of the most favoured nation, 444

Separate Article,

- 450

Certain stipulations which relate to the commerce between Russia, Prussia, Sweden

and Norway, not to be connected with this

treaty,

450

Sardinia.

Treaty with Sardinia. November 26, 1833, 512

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce

and navigation,

512

Art. 2. Vessels of either party, arriving in

the ports of the other, put on the footing of

national vessels,

512

Art. 3. Importations by American vessels

into Sardinia. Importations by Sardinian

vessels into United States,

. 512

Art. 4. The stipulations in the second and

third articles, how applicable, - - 514

Art. 5. Sardinian vessels may export from

the United States. United States may ex-

port from Sardinia,

·

514

Art. 6. No other or higher duties to be im-

posed on importations than are imposed on

importations of other nations, -

514

Art. 7. Coasting trade excepted, -

514

Art. 8. No preference of importations to be

given to either party,

514

Art. 9. Favours granted to other nations to

become common,

516

Art. 10. Vessels of both nations to have the

same footing as vessels of the most fa-

voured nation,

516

Art. 11. Shipwrecks,

516

Art. 12. Vessels of either nation, forced by

distress into the ports of the other, to be

Art. 3. Merchandise imported in the vessels

ofeither party not to be subject to increased

dutics,

446

exempt from port charges, provided, & c.,

516

Art. 13. Blockades,

516

INDEX.

639

Sardinia.

Art. 14. Articles of commerce allowed to pass

from Genoa through the Sardinian territo-

ries, &c. Notice of any transit duty to be given. Importations from the United States

to be considered the produce of United

States,

·

518

Art. 15. Consuls to have the privileges and exemptions of those of the most favoured

nation. Consuls engaging in commerce to

be subject to the same laws and regulations

to which individuals are subject,

518

Art. 16. Citizens or subjects of one party be-

ing appointed consuls by the other, to be

subject to the laws of the country to which

they belong, ·

· 518

Art. 17. Consuls may require the aid of the civil authorities to arrest deserters. De-

serters must be sent back within three

months, · ·

520

Art. 18. Power to dispose of personal goods.

In case of real estate, alien heirs allowed

time to dispose of the same,

520

Art. 19. The treaty to continue in force for

ten years, & c., ·

520

Art. 20. Ratifications to be exchanged within

ten months,

522

Separate Article,

522

The United States to establish differential du-

ties upon certain goods,

522

Siam.

Treaty of Amity and Commerce with the King of Siam. March 20, 1833, · 454

Article 1. Perpetual peace between the two

nations,

454

Art. 2. Citizens of the United States at liberty

to enter the ports of Siam with their cargoes, and to sell and barter the same, 454

Art. 3. Duties payable by vessels of the

United States. No duties payable by ves-

sels entering to refit,

455

Art. 4. Duties to be diminished as diminished

to the most favoured nation, ·

455

Art. 5. Assistance in case of shipwreck, 455 Art. 6. Settlement of debts contracted in

Siam,

·

455

Art. 7. Merchants of the United States to

rent the king's factories, &c., -·

455

Art. 8. Citizens of the United States taken

by pirates to be set at liberty,

· 455

Art. 9. Merchants of the United States to

respect the laws of Siam, Art. 10. Appointment ofConsuls,

· 455 455

Final ratification of the treaty reserved for the President of the United States, 456

Sicily. Convention between the United States and his
Majesty the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. October 14, 1832, · 442

Article 1. Agreement to pay the United

States for spoliations on American pro-

perty,

442

Art. 2. To be paid in nine equal instalments, 442

Art. 3. Ratifications to be exchanged in eight

months, .

444

Spain.

Treaty of Friendship, Limits and Navigation between the United States of America and

the King ofSpain. October 27, 1795, 138

Note of the treaties between the United States

and Spain,

- 138

Article 1. Peace established,

138

Art. 2. Southern boundary line of the United

States, dividing their territory from the

Spanish colonies of East and West Flo

rida, established,

139

Art. 3. Commissioners to run the boundary

line,

·

- 140

Art. 4. The Mississippi to be the western

boundary, and the navigation thereof se-

cured,

·

140

Art. 5. How each nation shall conduct with

Indians in their respective territories, 140

Art. 6. Each nation to protect the vessels of the other in their jurisdiction, · 140

Art. 7. No embargo allowed. In cases of seizure for debts or crimes, how to pro-

ceed,

142

Art. 8. Vessels forced into port by stress of

weather to be relieved,

142

Art. 9. Property taken from pirates to be

restored,

142

Art. 10. Vessels wrecked and foundered to be

relieved, .

142

Art. 11. Settlement of the estates of deceased

persons, -

144

Art. 12. Vessels suspected shall exhibit pass-

ports and certificates, ·

144

Art. 13. In case of war, one year allowed to

merchants to remove,

144

Art. 14. No citizen of either nation shall take

a commission from a foreign power to arm

privateers against the other, ·

144

Art. 15. Liberty of trade in enemy's ports

secured. Free ships make free goods, ex-

cepting contraband,

146

Art. 16. What articles shall be deemed con-

traband,.

146

Art. 17. Regulations respecting passports

and sea-letters,

148

Art. 18. Vessels shall exhibit passports to

ships of war, Art. 19. Consuls,

148 · 150

Art. 20. Courts of justice to be open to citi-

zens of each nation, ·

· 150

Art. 21. Compensation to be made to citi-

zens of United States for illegal captures

of vessels by Spanish subjects. Commis. sioners to ascertain the same, · 150

Art. 22. Mutual commerce between the nations

to receive extension and favour. Spanish

permits to citizens of the United States to

dispose of goods at the city of New Or

leans,

150

Art. 23. Ratifications to be exchanged in six

months, -

152

A Convention between His Catholic Majesty

and the United States of America for In.

demnifications for Losses. August 11 , 1802. Ratified by the United States Janu

ary 9, 1804, and by the King of Spain

July 9, 1818,

198

640

INDEX.

Spain.

Article 1. A board of five commissioners to

be appointed,

· · 198

Art. 2. Commissioners to take an oath, 198

Art. 3. Commissioners to meet and sit at

Madrid to receive claims, & c., · 198

Art. 4. Commissioners may examine any

question on oath,

· 198

Art. 5. No appeal from the commissioners.

Awards to be paid in specie,

- 198

Art. 6. Rights founded on claims originating

from excesses of foreign cruisers, reserved

by each party,

198

Art. 7. Convention effective on exchange of

ratifications,

198

Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits be-

tween the United States of America and

His Catholic Majesty. February 22, 1819.

October 29, 1820,

252

Spain.

Art. 13. Sailors deserting to be delivered up

on proof, & c.,

262

Art. 14. United States certify that they re-

ceive no compensation from France for claims provided for in this treaty, 262

Art. 15. Spanish vessels laden with Spanish productions admitted into Florida without

higher duties than vessels of the United

States, for twelve years,

- 262

Art. 16. Treaty to be ratified and ratifica-

tions exchanged,

264

Ratification by the King of Spain of the treaty of February 22, 1819, · · 264

Grants in favour of the Duke of Alagon,

the Count of Punon Rostro, and Don Pedro

de Vargas, annulled,

266

Copy of the grants annulled by the treaty,

267, 268, 269 , 270, 271 , 272, 273.

Notes of decisions of the Supreme Court in cases arising under this treaty, · 252

Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace and

friendship,

254

Art. 2. His Catholic Majesty cedes the Flo-

ridas. What things are included in the

cession,

254

Art. 3. Boundary line west of the Mississippi, according to Mellish's map of Janu-

ary 1 , 1818. The use of the waters ofthe Sabine, Red River, and Arkansas, common to both nations. Territorial renunciations

corresponding with the boundary line, 254 Art. 4. Commissioner and surveyor to be ap-

pointed by each party to run the boundary

line,

256

Art. 5. Free exercise of religion in the ceded

territories, & c.,

256

Art. 6. Inhabitants of the ceded territories to

be incorporated into the Union, & c., 256

Art. 7. Spanish troops to be withdrawn, and

possession given within six months after

exchange of ratifications,

· 258

Art. 8. Grants of land before 24th ofJanuary,

1818, confirmed, &c. Owners to fulfil the

conditions. Grants since January 24, 1818,

null and void, -

258

Art. 9. Reciprocal renunciation of claims. Renunciation of claims for transactions

in the Floridas. Satisfaction by United

States for injuries to the inhabitants of

Florida, ·

258

Art. 10. Convention of August, 1809, an-

nulled,

260

Art. 11. United States to satisfy claims of their citizens to the amount of five millions of dollars. Three commissioners to be appointed to decide upon claims. Com-

missioners to take an oath, & c. Commis-

sioners may hear and examine on oath , &c.

Spanish government to furnish documents,

&c. Records of proceedings, & c., to be

deposited in Department of State. Copies

to be furnished to the Spanish govern.

ment, ifrequired, ·

· 262

Art. 12. Treaty of 1795 confirmed, with ex-

ceptions. Neutral flag to cover enemy's

property, where,

· 262

Convention for the Settlement of Claims between the United States and His Catholic

Majesty. February 17, 1834, -

460

Article 1. Agreement by Spain to indemnify the United States. The sum of twelve

million reals vellon to be paid,

460

Art. 2. The interest to be paid in Paris,

yearly,

460

Art.3. All claims on Spain granted priortothe

date ofthis convention to be cancelled, 460

Art. 4. List of claims to be delivered to the

Spanish minister,

- 462

Art. 5. Ratifications to be exchanged within

six months,

·

462

Translation of the form or model of the in-

scription of the debt assumed by Spain, 462

Sweden.

Treaty of Amity and Commerce, concluded

between His Majesty the King of Sweden

and the United States of North America.

April 3, 1783,

60

Article 1. Peace and friendship between the

two nations, ·

62

Art. 2. Neither party to grant favours to other

nations, that shall not become common to

cither party,

62

Art. 3. Subjects of Sweden entitled to the

same privileges in the United States as the

most favoured nation,

62

Art. 4. Citizens of the United States entitled

to the same privileges in Sweden as the

most favoured nation,

62

Art. 5. Liberty of conscience secured, 62 Art. 6. Citizens and subjects may dispose of

their estates, may inherit, and may remove

their effects, ·

64

Art. 7. Liberty to either party to trade with

a nation at war with the other. Free ships make free goods, except contraband, 64

Art. 8. This liberty extends to all kinds of

merchandise except contraband ,

64

Art. 9. What goods shall be deemed contra-

band,

64

Art. 10. What goods shall not be deemed con-

traband,

66

Art. 11. In case of war, ships to be furnished

with sea-letters or passports,

. 66

INDEX.

641

Sweden. Art. 12. Vessels shall exhibit their sea-letters

and passports. No contraband may pass, 68

Art. 13. Mode of proceeding if contraband

goods are discovered,

68

Art. 14. Goods found in an enemy's ship lia-

ble to be confiscated, unless put on board

before the declaration of war, or within six

months, -

· 68

Art. 15. Vessels of war and privateers shall

do no injury; if they do, punishment and

restitution ,

· 70

Art. 16. Persons fitting out privateers to be

answerable by bonds for damages, 70

Art. 17. Recaptured vessels,

70

Art. 18. Regulations in case both nations

should be at war with a common enemy,

70

Art. 19. Ships of war and privateers may
bring prizes into the ports of either party, 72

Art. 20. In case of shipwreck, relief to be

given,

72

Art. 21. Vessels forced in by stress ofweather, 72

Art. 22. In case of war, nine months to be

allowed to citizens and subjects to sell and

transport their effects,

· · 74

Art. 23. Citizens of neither party to take

commissions or letters of marque to serve

against the other,

- 74

Art. 24. Vessels arriving on the coast of

either party, how to be treated,

74

Art. 25. How ships are to be treated if met

by ships of war, · ·

74

Art. 26. Consuls, & c., to be allowed in the

ports of each nation,

· 74

Art. 27. Ratifications,

· 76

Separate Article,

76

Separate Articles.

Article 1. The King of Sweden to protect vessels and effects of citizens of the United

States,

76

Art. 2. The United States to protect vessels

and effects of subjects of Sweden, 76

Art. 3. In case of war at sea, ships of war to

protect and assist vessels of each nation, 76

Art. 4. Regulations to transact business, by

the citizens or subjects of one party, in the

dominions of the other,

78

Art. 5. No vessel to be searched, unless in

case of fraud. Regulations in such cases, 78

Treaty with Sweden. September 4, 1816, 232
Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce. Complete security ofmerchants and traders, 232
Art. 2. No other or higher duties, &c., than the same articles would be subjected to, if they were the production or manufacture of any other country. No prohibition on exportations or importations which does not extend to all other nations. Equalization : of duties as to the vessels and cargoes of other nations, & c. Equalization of duties

Sweden.

extended to the colony of St. Bartholo

mews,

232

Art. 3. Not ratified,

234

Art. 4. Not ratified,

234

Art. 5. Consuls, &c. Proceedings against consuls, &c., offending against the laws. Archives, &c., ofthe consulate to be invio-

late. Consuls and their deputies to have

the right to act as judges, &c. Limitation

ofthe right. Right reserved to the parties

under consular decisions,

236

Art. 6. Not ratified,

236

Art. 7. Vessels and cargoes may enter ports,

&c., on paying pilotage, &c. Limitation

of this privilege,

238

Art. 8. Vessels may land part of their car

goes, and proceed with the remainder, on

paying a portion of the duties, &c. Ex-

ception as to vessels,

238

Art. 9. Rights and privileges of entrepôts, 238

Art. 10. Regulations in case of shipwreck,

238

Art. 11. Quarantine regulations,

238

Art. 12. The treaty of Paris, concluded in

1783, revived in part. Exception as to the

effect ofthe revival of the treaty of 1783 in

relation to other powers, -

240

Art. 13. Stipulations concerning blockades, 240

Art. 14. This treaty to endure for eight years after the exchange of ratifications, 240

Treaty with Sweden and Norway. July 4th,

1827, ·

346

Article 1. Navigation and commerce, - 346

Art. 2. Swedish and Norwegian vessels, & c. ,

to be treated as national vessels. Recipro-

cal as to American vessels,

346

Art. 3. Imports, -

348

Art. 4. Exports, -

348

Art. 5. Stipulations to be applicable to Ame-

rican vessels proceeding to St. Bartholo

mews,

- 348

Art.6. Not applicable to coastwise navigation,

348

Art. 7. No preference to be granted in regard

to importations,

348

Art. 8. Tonnage duty,

350

Art. 9. No restriction to be imposed by either

party upon importations and the products

of the soil,

350

Art. 10. All privileges of transit, drawback,

& c., to be mutual,

·

350

Art. 11. Vessels entering a port, and not

wishing to unload, not to pay duties, 350

Art. 12. Vessels unloading a part of their

cargoes, not to pay duties on the remainder, 350

Art. 13. Consuls, & c., to be admitted into the
ports of the contracting parties. Consuls, & c., to act as arbitrators in certain cases,
352

Art. 14. Consuls, &c., authorized to require the assistance of the local authorities. De

serters to be placed at the disposition of

the Consuls, & c. Proceedings in case of

crime on the part of the deserter

352

Art. 15. Shipwrecks,

354

81

3D

642

INDEX .

Sweden.

Tripoli.

Art. 16. Quarantine,

· 354

Art. 17. Certain articles of the treaty of April

Article 1. Peace and friendship established.

Privileges in commerce, &c., .

214

3, 1783, revived, Art. 18. Blockades,

351 · 356

Art. 19. Treaty to continue in force for ten

· 356 years,
Art. 20. Treaty to be ratified within nine

Art. 2. Prisoners to be mutually given up, 214

Art. 3. American forces in the province of

Derne to be withdrawn , ·

214

Art. 4. Free ships to make free goods, 214

months, -

356

Separate Article,

356

Provisions relative to the 8th, 9th, and 10th

articles of the present treaty,

356

Art. 5. Citizens, & c., to be given up, if taken

in prize-vessels,

214

Art. 6. Passports to be given to vessels of

both nations,

·

214

Art. 7. What shall be a sufficient passport,

215

Texas.

Convention between the Government of the

United States and the Government of Texas,

relative to reclamations for injuries by the

detention ofthe brigs Pocket and Durango.

·

510

April 11 , 1838,

Art. 8. Vessels of both nations may touch at ports of each for provisions, & c., · 215
Art. 9. Proper assistance to be given the ves sels of both nations in distress, · 215
Art. 10. Rules as to the time when, and the
distance at which, an enemy's vessel may

Article 1. Texas agrees to indemnify the

United States, -

510

be attacked,

· 215

Art. 11. Cominerce, & c., to be on the footing

Art. 2. Payment of the indemnity,

510

Art. 3. Ratifications to be exchanged in three

months, -

· 510

Convention between the United States of Ame-

of the most favoured nation ,

- 215

Art. 12. Consuls of the United States not to

be answerable for debts of citizens of the

United States, -

215

Art. 13. Salutes ofvessels of the United States,

rica and the Republic of Texas, for mark

216

ing the boundary between them. April 25,

1838,

511

Article 1. Commissioners and surveyors to be

Art. 14. Entire freedom to be allowed in reli-

gious matters,

·

216

Art. 15. Time allowed before an appeal to

appointed to run the boundary line, 511

Art. 2. Each party to exercise jurisdiction

until the line is marked, ·

511

arms,

216

Art. 16. Mutual exchange of prisoners in

event of war, ·

216

Art. 3. Ratifications to be exchanged within

three months, -

511

Art. 17. Vessels of United States captured by

one of the Barbary States, not to be sold,

but to be sent away,

· 216

Tripoli. Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the
United States of America and the Bey and
Subjects of Tripoli. November 4, 1796, 154

Article 1. Peace under the guarantee of the

Dey of Algiers,

154

Art. 18. Disputes to be settled by the Consul

of the United States,

216

Art. 19. The lex loci to prevail with regard

to homicides committed by a citizen ofthe

United States or a Tripoline,

- 216

Art. 20. Citizens of the United States dying

in the regency of Tripoli, their property to

Art. 2. Enemies ' goods to be free in ships be-

longing to the parties,

154

be saved for their representatives, 216

Art. 3. Persons and property in enemies' ves-

sels to be free in case of capture, · 154 Tunis.

Art. 4. Passports to be given,

154

Art. 5. Condemnation and bill of sale of a

prize-vessel to be available as a passport for

one year,

·

154

Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Tunis. August 17, 1796. March 26, 1799, - 157

Art. 6. Vessels putting into ports of parties

for provisions or repairs, -

154

Art. 7. Shipwrecks,

154

Art. 8. Neutrality of ports,

155

Art. 9. Commerce, & c., to be on the footing

Article 1. Peace and friendship established, 157
Art. 2. Restoration of subjects and goods found in an enemy's vessel, · · 157
Art. 3. Enemies' goods on board a vessel of

of the most favoured nations, ·

155

Art. 10. Acknowledgment of the receipt of

the price of peace,

· 155

the parties to be free,

157

Art. 4. Passports to be given,

157

Art. 5. Commander of a convoy to be believed

Art. 11. Pretexts arising from religious opin-

upon his word, in order to exempt it from

ions not to interrupt the state of harmony

of the two nations,

· 155

search and quarantine,

157

Art. 6. Nothing to be exacted for visits.

Art. 12. Disputes between the parties to be

Fugitive slaves and prisoners to be returned,

decided by reference to the Dey of Algiers, 155

158 Art. 7. Prize vessels purchased at Tunis, how

Treaty between the United States and the

to obtain temporary passports,

158

Bashaw, Bey, and subjects of Tripoli.

June 4, 1805, -

214

Art. 8. Hospitality to be granted to vessels entering the ports of the partics, · 158

INDEX.

643

Tunis.

| Venezuela.

Art. 9. Assistance to be granted to wrecked

vessels,

· 158

Art. 10. Neutrality of ports to be enforced,

158

Art. 11. Salutes,

158

Art. 12. Privileges of merchants. Tunisian subjects freighting an American vessel.
Embargoes. Protection of the subjects of the parties. Government of Tunis may

freight American vessels,

159

Art. 13. Enemy's subjects on board the ves-

sels of the parties, in what case they shall

be made slaves,

159

Art. 14. Duties to be reciprocally paid, 159 Art. 15. Liberty of commerce, contraband

excepted. Privileges of masters of vessels, 159

Art. 16. Duty of anchorage,

160

Art. 17. Right of having a consul ; his privi-

leges,

160

Art. 18. No responsibility for subjects con-

tracting debts, & c. .

160

Art. 19. Administration of the effects of a

decedent,

160

Art. 20. Consul's jurisdiction over his coun-

trymen ,

160

Art. 21. Punishment of personal assaults, 160

Art. 22. Trial of disputes on civil matters

between them,

·

160

Art. 23. In case of national differences, ac-

commodation is to be attempted before re-

course is had to arms,

160

Art. 6. Importations and exportations to be

on an equal footing,

468

Art. 7. Citizens of both nations to be on an

equality,

·

468

Art. 8. No embargo without allowing indem.

nification,

·

470

Art. 9. Citizens to be treated as friends in

case of a compulsory resort for refuge or

asylum in the rivers, & c.

470

Art. 10. Captures by pirates,

470

Art. 11. Protection in case of wreck, 470

Art. 12. Power to dispose of property within

the jurisdiction of the contracting parties, 470

Art. 13. Protection to persons and property, 472

Art. 14. Liberty of conscience and rights of

worship secured,

472

Art. 15. Both parties at liberty to trade with

those at enmity with either. Free ships to

make free goods. Free ships to make free

persons. Proviso,

472

Art. 16. Enemies' property, to be protected by

a neutral flag, must be shipped before the declaration of war. Regulations, · 474

Art. 17. Contraband goods specified, 474

Art. 18. Goods not contraband, as specified

in Art. 17 , to be considered as free, - 474

Art. 19. Contraband goods, only, liable to

confiscation ; and vessels to proceed after

the goods are taken out, -

· 474

Art. 20. Notice of blockade. Vessels enter.

Altered Articles of the treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United States and

the Bashaw Bey of Tunis. February 24,

1824,

298

ing before blockade may quit unmolested, 476

Art. 21. Examination of vessels at sea, 476

Art. 22. One of the parties being engaged in

war, vessels of the other to be provided

with sea-letters, & c.,

· 476

Article 6. Regulation of visits at sea. Slaves

escaping and taking refuge on board of American ships of war, to be free, · 298 Art. 11. Salutes to ships of war, · · 298

Art. 12. Commerce to be on an equal footing with citizens of the most favoured nations.

Rules as to freight. No captain to be de-

tained against his consent. Protection of

the citizens ofthe respective nations. Prc.

ference to Tunisian vessels for freight, 299

Art. 14. Trade between parties to be on an

equal footing,

300

Venezuela.

Treaty of Peace, Friendship, Navigation and Commerce, between the United States and

the Republic of Venezuela. January 20,

1836,

466

Article 1. Peace and friendship established, 466

Art. 2. Favours to commerce to be common

to both parties,

466

Art. 3. Mutual benefits in trade and residence, 466

Art. 4. Equalization of duties on vessels and

their cargoes,

- 468

Art. 5. Characteristics of a Venezuelan vessel,

468

Art. 23. Visiting regulations to apply onlyto

vessels without convoy,

478

Art. 24. Prize courts only to try prize causes, 478

Art 25. The neutral party not to accept a

commission to cruise against the other, 478

Art. 26. Time to be allowed, in case of war

between the parties, for removal and sale

of property,

478

Art. 27. No sequestration of money in bank

or public funds to be allowed,

478

Art. 28. Regulation of official intercourse, 478

Art. 29. Each party to have consuls, & c., in

each other's ports, ·

480

Art. 30. Consuls, & c., must exhibit their

commissions, ·

· 480

Art. 31. Immunities of consuls, & c., 480

Art. 32. Consuls may require the aid of the civil authorities to arrest deserters. De.

serters must be sent back within two

months, - .

480

Art. 33. Consular convention to be formed,

482

Art. 34. Treaty to remain in force for twelve

years. Individuals personally responsible

for infringements. War not to be declared until remonstrance is made, and satisfac

tion refused. Existing treaties not to be

644

INDEX .

Venezuela.

affected. To be ratified within eight

months, -

. 482

Wurtemburg.

Convention for the mutual Abolition of the Droit d'Aubaine and Taxes on Emigra

tion, between the United States of America

and His Majesty the King of Wurtemburg.

April 10, 1844,

570

Article 1. Droit d'Aubaine, &c., abolished, 570

Wurtemburg

Art. 2. Heirs to real property allowed time to

sell the same, & c., -

· 570

Art. 3. Duties on disposal of personal pro-

perty, the same as paid by the inhabitants, 570

Art. 4. Property of absent heirs to be taken

care of, ·

· 572

Art. 5. Disputes to be decided by the local

laws,

572

Art. 6. Property not yet withdrawn, em-

braced,

572

Art. 7. Convention subject to ratification

within twelve months, ·

· 572

GENERAL INDEX TO THE
EIGHT VOLUMES OF THE STATUTES AT LARGE.

Aarons, William James, authorized to exchange | Accounts, Public, &c. , (continued.)

lands, vi. 721 .

treasury transcripts . See Copies, p. 41.

"A. Bartow," boat register allowed to, vi.

executions in favor of United States to run

914.

out of the state where issued, i. 515.

Abatement of Suits and Process,

no advance money to be paid, iii. 723.

judgments in, not matter of error, i . 84, 85.

no money to be paid to any one in arrears, iv. 246 ; v. 31.

in cases of death of parties, i . 90.

in what manner kept, i. 250, 251 , 281 .

proceedings on death of parties, i. 90.

of public debtors and agents, i. 512 ; ii.

matters in, amendable, i. 91.

535, 817 ; iii. 366, 592, 723, 770, 771.

of suits by certain corporations, on their dissolution, iii. 621 ; v. 211 , 321 , 677.
Abbott, Isaac, pension to, vi. 81.

to be settled at treasury, iii. 366. revolutionary, time limited for present
ment of, i. 245, 580.

-, James, allowance to, for fences taken, vi. 416.

of navy pension fund, i. 716 ; ii. 53 ; iii. 287, 288 ; iv. 572, 714 ; v. 180.

Joel, Jr., to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 321 .
Robert, and others, grant of land to, vi. 679.

of army and navy agents, ii. 535, 818 ; iv. 360, 569, 572, 780 ; v. 117.
limitation of. See Limitation, p. 105. of different officers . See the titles of those

Abduction of free negroes in District of Columbia, iv. 450.

officers. notes of decisions , i . 513 ; iii. 593.

Abeel, G. B., debentures of, to be paid, vi. 325. Acken, William D., allowance to, in full of

Abel,Peggy, payment of pension to be made to,

claim for expenses , vi. 591.

vi. 657.

Acosta, Roque, land claim confirmed to, vi. 501 .

Abelino, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners Acts of State Legislatures, how authenticated, i.

and crew of, vi. 837.

122 ; ii. 298.

Abro, Benijah, pension to, vi . 232

of territories, how authenticated, ii . 299.

Academy ofFine Arts, Philadelphia, duties remitted to, vi. 121 .

of courts and judicial proceedings, how authenticated, i. 122.

-, Military. See West Point, p. 178. Adams, Abraham, land certificate to be surren-

Access to persons charged with offences, 1. 118. Accessories to Offences. See Post-Office, p.
138.

dered, and authorized to enter land, vi. 535. C., Jr., and others, discharged from a
note, vi. 665.

before the fact, i. 114. after the fact, i. 114, 116. in crimes under the post-office laws, i .

·, George, pension to, vi. 112. John, allowance to, for a horse, vi.
351 .

511 ; iv. 109, 114. Accountants,

fine to be refunded to, vi . 937. franking privilege of, ii . 102, 127.

in war department, i . 280 ; iii. 322, 366. compensation of, i. 280, 474, 730 ; ii.

Jonas, pension allowed to, vi. 23. increase of pension to, vi. 93.

152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309.

Nathan, William, and Peter, land war-

in navy department, i. 554 , 610 ; ii. 293 ; iii. 366.
compensation of, i. 610, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 288, 309.

rants to issue to, vi. 714. Priscilla, her husband's pension to be
paid to, vi. 321. Samuel, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305.

office abolished, iii . 366. Iccounts, Public, Regulation and Settlement of,

" William, judgment against, to be paid, vi. 750.

between the states and United States, i . Adamson, John, letters patent to, extended, vi.

49, 178, 229, 324, 371 , 409, 555, 616.

458 .

for provisions respecting accounts with particular states, see those states.
between United States and private persons
generally, i. 441 , 512 ; ii. 535, 817 ; iii. 366, 487, 567, 592, 688, 695, 723, 770 ;

Addoms, John T. , to be paid for damages, vi. 799.
Adjournment, of congress, i. 11 , 12, 17. of courts,

iv. 246 ; v. 31. treasury warrants of distress, iii 592.

of supreme court for want of a quorum, i. 76 ; iv. 332.

VOL. VIII.

1

2

GENERAL INDEX.

Adjournment, (continued. ) of circuit courts, i . 76, 369 ; v. 314, 392.
of district courts for inability ofjudge, i. 76 ; ii. 291.
in case of contagious sickness, i . 621 . in District of Columbia, iv. 94. Adjutant- General and Assistants, number and duties of, i . 430, 559, 604, 753 ; ii. 671 , 784, 819 ; v . 218. pay of, i. 431 , 559, 604 ; ii . 39, 671 , 784 ; iii. 615 ; v. 218.
of the militia. See Militia, p. 114. franking privilege of, ii . 785. clerks in office of, v. 26.
forage of. See Forage, p. 64. rations of. See Rations, p. 145.
Adjutants, number and duties of, i. 242, 604 ; ii . 133, 671 , iii. 615. pay of, i. 242, 484, 604 ; ii. 133, 671 , 819 ; iii. 616.
Administration, by consuls, of effects of citizens dying abroad, i. 255.
Administrators and Executors,
how made parties to suits, i. 90. entry of goods by, iii. 734. may sue in the District of Columbia, with-
out taking out letters there, ii . 758. Admiral, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to
owners and crew of, vi. 602. Admiralty,
jurisdiction of district courts, i . 76, 77. trials in, how, i. 77. seizures, what within, i. 77. appeals in, to circuit court, i. 79, 84 ; ii.
244 .

Agents, Public, (continued .) Indian. See Indian Affairs, p. 87. military, appointment and duties, ii. 135, 136, 207 ; v. 117.
Agricultural Bank of Mississippi, expenses of, to be ascertained and credit allowed to, vi. 861 .
Agricultural Statistics, appropriation for collecting, v. 354.
Aids- de- Camp, as to who are entitled to . See the titles of the respective officers.
Aitkin's Volunteers, present of rifles to, for their gallantry at Plattsburg, iv. 195.
Aiken, Andrew , pension allowed to , vi. 23. Aikman, Samuel, allowed to rectify a mistake
in a land entry, vi . 197. Aitkin, Martin J. , rifle to be presented to, iv.
195.
Alabama, Territory of, establishment and government of, iii. 371 , 468.
who may hold office in, iii. 417, 418. State of,
establishment of, iii . 489, 490 , 564. district court established in, iii. 564. admission into the Union , iii . 608. representation in congress, iii. 492 ; iv.
516 ; v. 491. acts of, assented, iv. 23, 308. marshal for northern district, iv. 399.
compact between Alabama and Mississippi, v. 116, 727, 728.
boundaries of, iii . 490 ; iv. 479. payment to, v. 506, 606, 607. lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94. payment to volunteers and militia of, v. 150.

to supreme court, i . 77, 78 ; ii. 244. in case of capture, i. 77, 384 ; iii . 449. in cases of prize and prize accounts, iii.
288.

University, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 383.
Alba, Peter, heirs of, land title confirmed to, vi. 785.

judges may take bail for property, and do other acts in vacation , iv . 503.
consolidation of suits in, iii. 20, 21 . jurisdiction in, over lakes, &c. , v. 726. courts of, to be always open for certain
purposes, v. 517. fees in, i. 332, 419, 451 . forms of proceeding in , i. 93, 276. facts to appear on record, i. 83. Advance ofPublic Money, prohibited except in special cases, iii. 723. Affidavits, of surveyors, taken by clerk of court, i. 278. commissioners for taking, ii . 679 ; iii. 350 . Affirmations, in what cases allowed instead of oaths, i .
289, 306, 554, 562 ; iii. 345. at custom-houses, i. 699.
perjury in. See Perjury, p. 131. Africa,
appropriations for support of agency on coast of, iv. 141 , 208 , 302, 354, 462, 615, 671 ; v. 157, 158, 501 , 615, 623.
establishment of agency, iii. 533. agents, Public. See Accounts, p. 1.
accounts, how settled, i. 441 ; ii. 535, 817 ; iii. 366, 487, 567, 688, 695, 723, 770 ; iv. 246 ; v. 31.
in army and navy, to give bonds, ii . 136 , 536.

Albro, Clark, pension to, vi . 24. Alden, Judah, bounty land warrant allowed to,
vi. 430. Roger, allowance to, for services and
expenses, i . 105 .
Aldrich, Gustavus, increase of pension to, vi. 68. and Luke, increase of pension to, vi. 114.
Aldrish, Caleb, pension allowed to, vi . 23. Ale, impertation of, regulated , i. 262, 701. Alexander, Carnes, children of, authorized to
enter land, vi. 781 . -, Captain E. B., accounts of, to be set-
tled, v. 698. George Dent, case of the will of, vi.
915 .
James, to be paid for losses by Indians, vi. 659.
9 authorized to exchange land , vi. 797.
John E., to be paid for services, vi . 755, 841.
Sarah, certificate to be paid to trustees of, vi. 587.
Thomas, pension to, vi. 24. Walter S., and others, v. George Wise, case of, to be removed, vi. 915. William, allowance for services and expenses of, vi. 33.

treasury, appointment and duties, i Alexandre, French Ship, duties collected on, to

592.

be refunded to , vi. 823.

GENERAL INDEX .

3

Alexandria, city of, charter, ii. 255 ; iv. 76, 77, 162 ; v. 599.
authorized to cut a canal, ii. 752.
authorized to subscribe to any improvement sanctioned by congress, iv. 164.
subscription to Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, iv. 294 ; v . 31 .
inspection, iv. 44, 519. bills issued by, iv. 742.
See District of Columbia, p. 51. sufferers by fire in, vi. 356. county of, established, ii. 105. suits in, transferred , ii. 107. taxes in, ii. 194. insurance in, ii. 227. real estate in, subject to debts, ii. 756. court-house and jail in, how to be
built, iii. 318 ; vi. 202. levy court of, iv. 43. inspection of flour in, iv. 44. turnpike corporation in, iv. 177. See District of Columbia, p. 51 . Alexandria Canal Company, charter of, vi. 419 ; v . 674. allowance to, v. 190 ; vi . 496. Alexandria and Leesburg Turnpike Company, charter of, iii. 5. Alexandrie, Julie, land claim of, not confirmed, vi. 683. Alfonso, Catalina, land claim confirmed to, vi. Francisco, 500, 501. Alfonson, Juan,
Alford, Benedict, pension allowed to, vi . 599, 629.
Algerines, act to protect commerce against, iii. 230. reward to captors of vessels, iii. 315.
Algiers, consul at, i. 533. indemnity to citizens of, i . 723. ransom of captives in, i. 487. appropriations for treaty with, i. 460, 505 ; ii. 66.
Treaty of Peace and Amity between the Dey ofAlgiers and the United States ofAmerica, September 5, 1795, viii. 133.
Article 1. Peace established, viii. 133. Art. 2. Commercial intercourse regulated,
viii. 133. Art. 3. Vessels of each nation to pass un-
molested, viii. 133. Art. 4. How passports of vessels and ships
of war shall be examined , and to whom
to be granted, viii. 133, 134. Art. 5. No Algerine cruiser may take any
person out of a vessel of the United States, viii. 134. Art. 6. Vessels of United States stranded
to be relieved, viii . 134. Art. 7. Algerines not to sell vessels of war
to the enemies of the United States, viii. 134 . Art. 8. When passport is not necessary, viii. 134.
Art. 9. Other Barbary States not to be allowed to sell prizes in Algiers, viii. 134.
Art. 10. United States may send prizes in-
to the ports of the regency, viii. 134. Art. 11. How ships of war of United

Algiers, (continued . ) States shall be treated in the ports ofthe regency. Fugitive slaves to be returned, viii. 134.
Art. 12. How slaves shall be redeemed,
and when captured persons shall be lawful prize, viii. 135. Art. 13. How the estates of citizens of
United States dying in the regency shall be settled, viii. 135. Art. 14. No citizen of United States to be
compelled to purchase goods or pay debts of another, viii. 135. Art. 15. How disputes shall be settled , viii. 135 . Art. 16. How crimes shall be punished, viii. 135.
Art. 17. Privileges of the consul of the United States, viii. 135.
Art. 18. In case of war, citizens of United
States may embark unmolested, viii. 136. Art. 19. Citizens of either nation captured
by the other to be set at liberty, viii. 136.
Art. 20. Vessels of war to be saluted, viii. 136.
Art. 21. Consul not to pay duty, viii. 136.
Art. 22. War not to be declared in case
ofbreach of treaty. Sum to be paid to the dey, viii. 136. Treaty of Peace and Amity with the Dey of Algiers. June 30 -July 6, 1815, viii. 224 .
Article 1. Peace and friendship. Favors in navigation and commerce to be com mon to each, viii. 224.
Art. 2. Abolition of tribute in any form, viii. 224.
Art. 3. American citizens to be delivered up, viii. 224.
Art. 4. Indemnification to American citizens for detention and loss of property. Bales of cotton and $10,000 to be delivered to the American consul, viii. 224.
Art. 5. Enemy's property to pass free in vessels of each party, viii. 224.
Art. 6. Citizens or subjects taken on board an enemy's vessel to be liberated , viii. 224.
Art. 7. Passports to vessels of each party and right of visit restricted . Offenders to be punished for abusing the right of visit. Vessels of war of United States to suffer Algerine cruisers to pass unmolested, viii. 225.
Art. 8. What shall be a sufficient passport, viii. 225.
Art. 9. Provisions to be furnished to ves
sels in need at market price, viii. 225. Art. 10. Assistance to be given to the
crew, and protection to the property, of vessels cast ashore , viii . 225. Art. 11. How vessels may be protected, viii. 225.
Art . 12. Commerce on the footing of the most favored nations, viii . 225 , 226.
Art. 13. Consul of United States not responsible for debts of citizens, & c . , viii. 226 .
Art. 14. Salutes to vessels of war of the
United States. Fugitive slaves not be returned, viii. 226.

GENERAL INDEX .

Algiers, (continued. )

Algiers, (continued. )

Art. 15. Pretexts arising from religious

slaves, but to be exchanged within

opinions not to interrupt harmony, & c Consuls may travel within the territories of each party, viii. 226. Art. 16. How disputes may be settled, & c. , viii. 226. Art. 17. Prisoners of war not to be made
slaves, but to be exchanged within twelve months, viii. 226. Art. 18. Powers at war with United States
not to be suffered to sell captured American vessels at Algiers, viii. 226. Art. 19. Consuls of United States to de-

twelve months, viii. 246. Art. 18. Powers at war with United States
not to be suffered to sell American captured vessels at Algiers, viii . 246. Art. 19. Consuls of United States to de-
cide disputes between American citizens, &c., viii. 247. Art. 20. In case of crimes, the law of the country to prevail, viii. 247. Art. 21. Consuls of United States not to pay duties on imports for their houses and families, viii. 247.

cide disputes between American citizens , viii. 227.
Art . 20. In cases of killing, wounding, or striking, the law of the country to prevail, & c., viii. 227.
Art. 21. Consul of United States not to

Art. 22. Citizens of United States dying within the regency, their property to be under the direction of the consul, & c., viii. 247.
Article additional and explanatory, viii. 247 .

pay duties on what he imports for his house and family, viii. 227. Art. 22. Citizens of the United States dying within the regency of Algiers, their property to be under the direction ofthe

Part of the thirteenth article of the treaty annulled, viii. 247.
Aliens. See Naturalization, p. 119. suit by and against, i . 78, 79, 80. to be registered, i . 567.

consul, unless otherwise disposed of by will, viii. 227.

removal of, i. 570, 571. not to be employed in vessels, ii. 809. See

Renewed Treaty with Algiers , December

Seamen, p. 153.

22, 23, 1816, viii. 244.

Alien Enemies, removal and restraint of, i. 577 ;

Article 1. Peace and friendship estab-

ii. 781.

lished. Favors in navigation and com- Allain, Valerian, land title confirmed to, vi.

merce to be common to each, &c., viii .

855.

244.

Allan, John, grant of land to, ii. 101 .

Art. 2. Abolition of tribute in any form, Allard, Gabriel N. , land claim confirmed to, vi .

viii. 244.

500.

Art. 3. Mutual restitution of prisoners and Allaways, Joseph, bounty, arrearages, &c., of,

subjects, viii. 244.

to be paid, vi. 357.

Art. 4. Delivery of a quantity of bales of Alleghany Bank, compromise of debt due from ,

cotton to the consul- general, viii. 244.

v. 178, 317.

Art. 5. Enemy's property to pass free in vessels of each party, viii . 244.

-, Ship, owners of, to be paid for her loss, vi. 442.

Art. 6. Citizens or subjects taken on board Allen, Abel, pension allowed to, vi. 440.

an enemy's vessel to be liberated, viii. 244.

-, Captain, and his Company, claims to be settled, vi. 875.

Art. 7. Passports to vessels of each party and right of visit restricted . Offenders
to be punished for abusing the right of visit. Vessels of war of United States

County, Indiana, grant of land to the use of, vi. 448. -, George W. and Reuben, release of land to, vi. 915.

to suffer Algerine cruisers to pass, &c., viii. 245.

Frederick, P., rifle to be presented to, iv. 195.

Art. 8. What shall be a sufficient passport, viii. 245.
Art. 9. Provisions to be furnished to ves-

Heman, fees, as marshal, to be paid to, vi. 514 .
Isaac, pension to, vi. 940.

sels at market price , viii . 245. Art. 10. Assistance to vessels cast on
shore, viii. 245. Art. 11. How vessels may be protected,
viii. 245.

James, pension to, vi. 178.
T., allowed to enter lands, v. 715. 9 John, grant of land to, vi. 43.
allowed to withdraw land entries, vi. 191.

Art. 12. Commerce, &c. , on the footing ofthe most favored nations, viii . 245.
Art. 13. Consul of United States not re-
sponsible for debts of citizens, & c ., viii. 246 .
Art. 14. Salutes to vessels of war of Unit-

authorized to enter land at private sale , vi . 575.
pension to , vi. 566. L., to be indemnified, vi . 770.
Nathaniel, to be paid for advances, vi. 261 .

ed States. Fugitive captives not to be returned, viii. 246.
Art. 15. Religious opinions not to interrupt harmony. Consuls may travel within the territories of each party, viii. 246 .

Peter L., pension to, vi . 650. " Samuel, pension to, vi. 110.
Sarah, warrant for bounty land to be issued to, and to be paid for services of her son, S. Drew, vi . 236.
to be paid for printing, v. 631.

Art. 16. How disputes may be settled, & c. ,

William, pension to, vi . 886.

viii. 246.

Alley, John H. , sureties of, released, vi . 268

Art. 17. Prisoners of war not to be made | Alliance, prize money to crew of, v. 158.

GENERAL INDEX.

5

Allis, Randall, to be paid for lands relinquished, vi. 522.

&c., from representatives of, and to give them a bond, iv. 335, 336.

Allotment of Circuits by Judges, of supreme court, i. 253, 333 ; ii . 157 , 158 , 244, 471 ; v. 178, 507.
Allspach, David, released as surety of M. Allspach, vi. 923.
Alman, John, authorized to exchange land, vi. 680.
Alpuente, Edward, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500. succession of land claim con-

Anderson, Captain R., arrearages to be paid to, v. 695.
R. P., to be paid for printing and binding, v. 794.
Robert, released from a bond by part payment, vi. 895.
Sarah and Henry, and others, interest allowed to, vi. 562.
William S., to be paid for a horse, vi. 560.

firmed to, vi . 500. Alston, Joseph I., and another, authorized to
collect taxes, vi. 293, 311.
Altering Public Documents. See Counterfeiting. Amazon, The Ship, forfeiture remitted to own-
ers of, vi. 122. Ambassadors. See Ministers, p. 115.
suits by and against, i. 18, 80. writs against, illegal, i. 117, 118. assault, &c., on, punished, i. 118. Ambrista, Michael, land claim confirmed to, vi. 788 .
Amendment by Courts, of process and pleadings, i. 91.

Lieutenant-Colonel, balance due to, to be paid, iv. 671. Andreas, John, preemption allowed to, iv. 57. Andrews, Abner, increase of pension to , vi. 83.
Amos, pension to, vi. 417. William, pension to, vi. 805. Andrus, Samuel, pension to, vi. 24.
increase of pension to, vi . 84. Theodore, pension to, vi. 24. Angel, Sarah, and others, land warrant to issue to, vi. 749.
Anglen, John Van, pension to, vi. 75. Ann and Hope, Ship, duties remitted on teas
imported in, ii. 117.

American Antiquarian Society, public docu- Annual Reports. See Reports, p. 146.

ment to be presented to, iii. 248.

Antill, Edward, grant of land to, ii. 712.

Brig, of Savannah, register allowed Appalachicola Indians, treaty with, vii. 377,

to, vi. 559.

427.

Consul at London, allowance to, for Apparel and Baggage, exempt from duties, i.

charges, vi. 620.

661 ; v. 560.

State Papers, appropriation for distri- | Appeals,

bution of, v. 171, 174.

from district to circuit court, i . 79, 83, 84 ;

B. C. Foreign Missions, compensation

ii. 244 ; v. 539.

to, for improvements on Indian lands, iv. 791 .

evidence may be reduced to writing, i. 89, 90.

Vessels,

from a district court to a circuit court of

what are entitled to privileges of, i. 57,

another district, iii. 462 ; v. 177, 210.

287, 305 ; ii. 210, 296.

from a district court sitting as a circuit

provisions on cession of Florida, iii. 660.

court to supreme court, i. 77, 78 ; ii .

Ames, David A., pension to, vi . 566. Robert, pension to, vi. 67.

598 ; iv. 192 ; v. 250, 504. from circuit courts to supreme court, i. 84,

, Spafford, pension to, vi. 67.
Amistad, The Schooner, register granted to, vi. 824.

85 ; ii. 244 ; iii. 481 , 482 ; v. 539. from courts of District of Columbia. See
District of Columbia, p. 51 .

Amory, Jonathan, Jr., money paid by, to be

Thomas C.,

refunded, vi. 214.

when new evidence admitted on , ii. 244. in case of applications for patents, i. 322,

Anacosta Bridge Company,

323 ; v. 120, 354.

to be paidfor damage to their bridge, vi. 153. act of incorpora-

in case of adjudications upon land claims, iv. 53, 285, 401.

tion of, revived, vi. 375.

in case of custom-house appraisements, iv.

Anderson, Andrew, allowed to enter certain

409 ; v. 564.

lands, v. 715.

from decisions of district courts respecting

Charles, authorized to exchange land,

treasury warrants, iii. 596.

vi. 340.

from territorial courts ; in Florida, iii . 752 ;

-, George, duties to be refunded to, vi.

iv. 47, 165, 600 ; in Mich., iv. 80 ; in Ar

411 .

kansas, iv. 262, 401 ; generally, ii. 338.

James, authorized to enter land, vi.

note of decisions, i . 84.

925.

Apothecary- General and Assistants,

B., and others, allowance to, vi. 565.

appointment and duties, i. 721 ; ii. 820 ; iii. 114, 570, 582.

" John, to be paid for house burnt, vi.

See also Medical Department, p. 112.

264 .

Appleton, Abigail, pension to, vi. 407.

land of, to be surveyed, and patents granted to, vi. 506.

pension renewed to, vi . 689.

C. H. ,

duties to be repaid to,

Joseph, payment to be credited, and

Nathaniel W., vi. 305.

a land patent issue to, vi. 156.

Appointments, how made, i. 17 ; iii. 582.

Lewis, to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 472.
Richard, allowance to widow and
children of, vi. 637. C., surveyor to receive books,

Apportionment of Representation, before the first census, i. 10, 11 , 191 .
under the first census, (1791 , ) i . 253. second " (1802, ) ii. 128. third 66 (1811 ,) ii . 669.

6 GENERAL INDEX .

Apportionn.ent, & c ., (continued. )

under the fourth census, (1822, ) iii . 651 , Appropriations, (continued .)

652, (1823,) 720.
fifth 66 sixth 66 (1832, ) iv. 516. special acts on the admissi(1on842o,f) dvif.fe4r9e1nt.
states, i. 191 , 491 , 492 ; ii. 175, 703 ; iii.

1829, 323, 336 ; in 1830, 377, 425, 427 ; in 1831 , 435, 452 ; in 1832
506, 580, 599, 609 ; in 1833, 609, 619 ; in 1834, 672, 689 ; in 1835, 760.

5219,0,734439. , 430, 492, 547, 555, 645 ; v. 50, provisions of the constitution respecting,
i. 10.
Appraisement,

vol. v. in 1836, 2, 17, 62, 112 ; in 1837,
163, 207 ; in 1838 , 216, 249, 264, 265, 312 ; in 1839, 312, 318, 339 ; in 1840, 367, 371 , 406, 410 ; in 1841 ,

how made where duty is ad valorem, iii.

1481402, , 442619,, 443770,, 447551,, 449661, , 524869, ;537in,

434, 735 ; iv. 274, 409, 591 ; v. 563, 564, 566.
in case of mixed articles, iv. 409, 593. of damaged goods , i . 41 , 165, 666. of unclaimed goods, i. 165, 670 ; iii. 435 ;

545, 546, 579, 585, 586 ; in 1843, 598, 601 , 630 ; in 1844, 651 , 663,
765628., 669, 672, 681 ; in 1845, 739, unexpended appropriations to be carried to

v. 562. where there is no invoice, i. 665 ; iii. 434. where invoice is too low, iii. 734 , 735. in case of invoice not corresponding with
the articles in a package, iii . 735. owners may be examined on oath, iv. 592 ;

surplus fund, i. 437 ; iii . 320, 567, 568 ; v. 234. transfer of, generally, ii. 535 ; iii . 320, 390,
406, 568 ; v. 78, 223, 380, 533, 597, 645, 678 .
not to be paid to persons in arrears , iii.

v. 564. number of packages to be examined, iv.
410 ; v. 565.

673, and the appropriation acts from that
period down to iv. 246. for mission to Panama, iv. 158.

secretary of treasury to establish rules of appraisement, iv. 411, 592 ; v. 566.
rule as to average value, iv. 409, 593.
appeal to the collector, iv. 409 ; v. 564.

in what currency to be paid, iv. 699, 771. estimates for, iii. 567, 563 ; v. 80, 525, 526,
537, 693. title of appropriation bills, v. 537.

of goods, &c., seized , i . 395, 695, 696 ; v. 653.
of goods taken in execution, i. 335.

fiscal year, v. 537. annual appropriation for surveys , v . 454.
for sites of forts, &c ., when to be expend-

Appraisers, appointment of, iii. 435, 735 ; iv. 409, 411 . where there are no regular appraisers, the other officers are to act as such, v. 566.
may be sworn before a commission, i. 395. Appropriations,

ed, v. 468.
for army to be for only two years, i. 14. annual statement of, v. 117. for relief of Venezuela, ii. 730.
for secret service, i. 128 ; and see that title.

for the army, navy, military academy, for- Arbitrators, in patent cases, i. 322, 323. tifications, pensions, Indian affairs, and Archbald, William Augustus, letters patent

forliignhttehronuaslesi.mprSoeveetmheonstestitles . . See Canals,
Roads, Navigation, Ports, and Harbors. appropriation bills for civil and diplomatic
purposes, vol. i. in 1789, 95 ; in 1790, 104 ; in

granted to, vi. 373. Archer, Moses, pension allowed to , vi. 587.
Richard T., authorized to purchase land, vi. 614.
Architect of the Capitol, office of, iv . 266, 363. Arcoit, François, representative of, authorized

to enter land, vi . 258. i1n79117,931,9302,52, 13439, 2; 2i6n; 1i7n941, 739422,, 329844 ;; Arey, Crosby, and others, fishing bounty al-

in 1795, 405, 438 ; in 1796, 445, 459,

lowed to, vi. 534.

492, 493 ; in 1797, 498, 516, 534 ; Argonaut, Ship, bonds for duties on teas im-

in 1798, 542, 551, 591 , 609, 611 ; in

ported in, to be taken, vi. 16.

1799, 717, 723.

Arickson, Samuel C. , pension to, vi. 139.

vol. ii. in 1800, 60, 62, 83 ; in 1801 , Arkansas,

117 ; in 1802, 131 , 147, 148, 184,

for provisions as to lands in, see Lands,

192 ; in 1803, 202, 210 ; in 1804,

Public, p. 94.

264, 273, 307 ; in 1805, 310, 315, 316 ; in 1806, 384, 389 ; in 1807, 432 ;

estab(l1i.)shmTeenrtriatnordygoof,vernment of, iii. 493,

in 1808, 462, 468, 491 ; in 1809, 520,

565 ; iv. 303, 332, 401.

552 ; in 1810, 557, 569 ; in 1811 ,

western boundary fixed, iii. 750 ; iv. 40.

614, 643 ; in 1812, 686, 713, 734 ; in 1813 , 791, 823.

seminary of learning in, iii . 407 ; iv. 235 661 .

vol. iii. in 1813, 81 ; in · 1814, 93,
106, 139, 152 ; in 1815, 206 , 235 ; in 1816, 277, 340 ; in 1817, 352, 393 ; in 1818, 418, 463 ; in 1819, 496 ; in

road in. See Roads, p. 148. provisions as to courts, iii. 495 ; iv. 52,
261, 262, 399, 473, 506, 739. boundary line between Arkansas and Lou-

1820, 555, 601 ; in 1821 , 623 ; in 1822, 663 ; in 1823, 721 , 757. vol. iv. in 1824, 3, 11 , 79 ; in 1825,
79, 85, 102, 124, 137 ; in 1826, 137, 142, 154, 158, 162 ; in 1827 , 208 ; in
1828, 246, 247, 297, 302, 303 ; in

isiana, iv. 276.
compensation of governor, members of legislature, & c., iii. 495 ; iv. 303, 506.
certain acts of the governor, James Miller, confirmed, iv. 18.
certain acts of the governor, John Pope,
confirmed, v. 208.

GENERAL INDEX.

7

Arkansas, (continued . ) appropriation for surveying, and boundary with Missouri, iii. 763. additional brigadier-general to be appointed for, iv. 394.
abstract of military bounty lands to be furnished to, iv. 1.
statute of, affirmed , iv. 262. qualification of voters, iv. 526.
(2.) State of, received into the Union, v. 50, 58. provisions for the execution of the laws of
the United States therein, v. 51. propositions offered to, in relation to lands,
salt springs, &c . , v. 51 , 58. jurisdiction of district court extended, v.
147.
note of acts respecting, iii . 493. authorized to sell school lands, v. 600. jurisdiction of crimes in the Indian Terri-
tory, v. 680. representatives in congress. See Appor-
tionment, p. 5. appropriation for a university in, vi . 360. reservation of school lands in, vi . 819. township 8, range 32, authorized to enter
land, vi. 868. Armed Merchant Ships,
regulations of, ii . 342 ; iii . 450. captures by, iii. 513.
Armed Occupation of Florida, v. 502, 671. Armistead, Walker K., allowance to, for ad-
vances, vi. 353. Armroyd and Company, drawback allowed to,
vi. 96. Armories. See Arsenals, p. 9. Arms, Lemuel,
to be paid for a building destroyed , vi. 304. lost in service of United States, payment
for. See Property, p. 142. right of the people to keep and bear, i. 21 . and Ammunition,
temporary non-exportation of, i. 369, 444, 520, 549.
supply to militia, i . 576 ; ii. 490 ; iii. 320. appropriation for, ii. 473, 490 ; iii. 320. Armstrong, Andrew , account of, to be settled, and allowance to , vi. 587.
Francis W., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 453.
General, certain drafts of, to be paid, vi. 224.
James, pension to , vi. 112. William, allowance to, for losses, v. 776.
Army, obsolete general acts, i . 119, 222, 241 , 430, 483, 507, 604, 725 , ii. 7, 85, 481 , 552, 669, 671 , 735, 784, 788, 794 , 819 ; iii. 39, 113, 146 , 297. notes of acts, ii. 249, 359.
provisional and temporary acts, i. 558, 569, 725, 749 ; ii . 481 , 552, 695 ; iii. 128.
acts in force, i. 279 ; ii. 132, 290, 816 ; iii . 426, 460, 615, 721 ; iv. 173, 360 , 647, 652, 780 ; v. 256, 308, 512, 513, 654.
peace establishment, iii. 224 , 615. force of, i . 119, 222, 241 , 366 , 430, 483 ,
604, 750, 752 ; ii . 7, 85, 132, 481 , 669, 670, 704, 764, 794 ; iii. 224 , 615 ; iv. 652 ; v. 256, 512, 654. former establishment recognized and adopted, i. 95, 121 .

Army, (continued. ) enlistments in, mode and term of, i. 242 ; ii. 361, 672, 788 , 795 ; iii. 3, 96, 115 ; iv. 647 ; v. 258.
who may be enlisted , i . 119 , 604 , 751 ; ii 135, 362, 672, 792, 795 ; iii. 146 ; iv. 647 ; v. 260.
officers in line,
regimental and company, i. 119 , 241 , 483, 604, 750 ; ii. 133, 671 , 764, 791 , 794 ; iii. 114, 115, 615.
for higher officers, see the respective titles.
Pay, not to be in arrears, i. 390 ; ii . 135, 672, 795.
of privates, i. 96, 120, 242, 430, 484, 605, 751 ; ii. 133, 482, 672, 782,788 . iii. 225 ; iv. 647 ; v. 258, 308. on fatigue duty, iii. 488.
of regimental and company officers, i, 120, 242, 430, 484, 508, 750 ; ii. 133, 672, 782 ; iii . 225 ; iv. 227.
for pay of higher officers, see the respective titles.
assignment of, void, i. 280. extra pay forbidden, v. 510. medical department. See also Medical Department, p. 111 . general acts, i . 431 , 484 , 559, 604 , 721 ;
ii. 133, 819 ; iii. 114, 115 , 225, 297, 426, 616 ; v. 308,513. special acts, i. 119 ; ii. 290, 671 ; iii. 512, 570 ; iv. 550, 714 ; v. 117, 260. clothing of privates, i. 120, 242, 430, 484, 754 ; ii. 134, 672, 695 ; iii. 114, 298 how distributed and accounted for, ii
365; iv. 173, 174. oath of allegiance , i . 96, 121 , 242, 432, 486,
605 ; ii . 136, 361 , 672, 796. to be governed by the rules and articles of
war, i. 96, 121 , 223, 432, 486, 553, 605 ; ii. 134, 371 , 672, 795 ; iii. 616, 225. rules and articles for, ii. 359 ; iv. 417. See Rules and Articles, p. 150.
bounty, i . 222, 224, 242, 409, 414, 430, 483, 484,604, 751 ; ii. 134 , 669, 672, 704, 788, 792, 795 ; iii. 3, 94 , 96, 146, 225 ; iv. 647 ; v. 260.
engineers, i. 366, 430, 483, 552, 605, 753 ; ii. 137, 206, 367, 720 ; iii. 342, 426, 615 ; iv. 607 ; v. 256, 260, 308.
artillerists, i . 366, 430, 483, 552, 605, 750 ; ii. 132, 206, 481 , 671 , 698 , 735 ; iii. 113, 224, 460 ; v. 256.
repeal of acts, i . 432, 507, 551 , 796 ; v. 257.
uniform of, to be prescribed by the presi dent, ii. 371 .
exemption of, from arrest, i. 485, 560, 596, 751 ; ii. 137, 674, 788.
loan of arms, &c ., to state troops, i. 560. rangers, ii. 670, 774 , 804 ; iii . 39, 74 ; iv.
533, 652. officers, how to rank, ii. 695 , 819.
promotions, ii. 764 , 819 ; iii . 114, 115 ; v 257.
mileage on discharge, i . 755 ; ii . 137, 674, 796.
brevet rank, ii . 366, 785 ; iii . 427 ; v. 352.
franking privilege of officers, ii . 277, 600, 698, 785, 820 ; iii . 427 ; v . 259.
sea fencibles, iii . 3, 47, 114.

GENERAL INDEX.

Army, (continued .) waiters, ii. 785 ; iii. 114. captives, iii. 115.
system of cavalry tactics, iv. 195. stewards of hospitals, v. 258. riflemen, v. 33, 259, 512, 654. officers not to be separated from their regi-
ments, v. 260.
compensation for disbursements of public money, iv. 754, 755 ; v. 308, 510.
military store-keepers, iii . 615 ; v. 512. women, nurses, &c. , ii. 134.
quartering of, in private houses, i. 21 . employment of,
to garrison forts, i. 346. to enforce acts respecting Indians, i .
473 ; iii. 333. to enforce neutrality laws, i. 384 ; iii.
449 ; v. 214. in making certain roads, iv. 6, 227,
244 ; v. 67. other special cases, ii. 445, 510, 708 ;
iii. 92, 200, 651 ; iv. 634 ; v. 660. generally, ii. 443.
regiment of dragoons, iv. 652 ; v. 33, 512, 654.
flogging abolished , ii. 707, 735 ; iv. 647. preservation of captured flags, &c. , iii. 133. arrears of pay of revolutionary soldiers of
Virginia and North Carolina, i . 187. Scott's regulations for, ii. 830 ; iii . 616,
686 .
supplies for, how procured, i . 280 ; ii . 536, 697, 816 ; iii. 427, 568, 721 ; iv. 360, 780.
officers employed, ii. 536, 697, 816 ; iii. 298, 426 ; iv. 360, 780 ; v. 258.
ordnance department, ii. 732, 819 ; iii. 75, 115, 203, 299, 615 ; iv. 504 ; v. 258, 259, 260, 308, 512, 513. note of acts, ii. 732.
quartermaster's department, officers in, i . 222, 508, 752 ; ii. 671, 696, 742, 784, 819 ; iii. 297, 426, 615 ; iv. 174 ; v. 257. pay of, i. 223, 242, 431 , 484, 508, 752 ; ii. 696, 742, 784, 819 ; iv. 174 ; v. 257. regulations of, ii. 696, 697, 743, 816 ; iii. 298, 426 ; iv. 173 ; v. 117, 257, 308, 513. corps of artificers in, ii. 710.
See also Quartermasters, p. 144. commissariat department,
officers in, ii. 697, 743, 817, 819 ; iii. 115, 298, 426, 582 , 615 ; iv. 360, 780 ; v. 258, 513.
regulations of, ii. 697 , 817 ; iii. 115, 427, 721 ; iv. 360, 780.
of ordnance, ii. 732, 733 ; iii. 75. officers of, forbidden to trade, & c., ii.
742 ; iii. 427.
See Commissaries, p. 38. general acts respecting the staff, ii. 819 ;
iii. 151 , 297, 426. See also the titles of the officers in the staff.
secretary of commanding general, ii. 735. brevets, ii. 783 ; iii. 427 ; v. 352. inilitary agents, ii . 133 , 136, 207. penalty for enticing soldiers to desert, & c.,
i. 432, 485 ; ii. 136. See Deserters, p . 47.

Army, (continued .) penalty for receiving deserters, &c. , i. 432, 485 ; ii. 136.
forage and rations, component parts of, i. 120, 430, 484, 605, 754 ; ii . 134, 672 ; iii . 427. commutation of, or allowance for, i. 120, 431, 484 ; ii . 134, 483, 782 ; iii . 34, 299.
additional, i . 390, 409, 431 , 484 ; v. 258, 308.
spirit ration, ii . 290 ; iii. 488. forage master, ii. 698, 820. of commanders of posts, &c., i . 508
ii. 134 ; v. 513. of officers in time of peace, v. 746. appropriations for military service, no appropriation to be for more thar
two years, i. 14. vol. i . in 1789, 95 ; in 1790, 104, 185
in 1791 , 190 , 224, 228 ; in 1792, 262, 285 ; in 1793, 328 ; in 1794, 346, 395, 404 ; in 1795, 438 ; in 1796, 450, 493 ; in 1797, 508, 535 ; in
1798, 536, 555, 560, 563, 575, 608, 609 ; in 1799, 726, 741. vol . ii. in 1800, 60, 66 ; in 1801 , 108 ; in 1802, 131 , 183 ; in 1803, 227, 241 , 249 ; in 1805, 315 ; in 1806, 408 , in 1807, 412 , 420 ; in 1808, 470, 473, 497 ; in 1809, 545 ; in 1810, 563 ; in 1811, 615 ; in 1812, 674, 678, 682, 683, 774, 781 , 787 ; in 1813, 791 , 822.
vol. iii. in 1813, 39 ; in 1814 , 93, 104 , 152 ; in 1815, 222, 251 ; in 1816, 257, 330 ; in 1817, 345, 359, 378 ; in 1818, 405 , 407, 463, 478 ; in 1819, 480 ; in 1820, 539, 562, 602 ; in 1821 , 612, 633 ; in 1822, 652, 686 ; in 1823, 748, 749.
vol. iv. in 1824, 8, 36 ; in 1825, 82 ; in 1826, 150 ; in 1827 , 214 ; in 1829, 257, 265, 314 ; in 1829, 348, 355 ; in 1830 , 374, 397, 424 ; in 1831 , 465 , in 1832, 501, 532, 580,594 ; in 1833, 641 , 642, 652 ; in 1834, 673 ; in 1835, 746, 747.
vol. v. in 1836, 1 , 6, 8, 17, 29, 33, 65, 78 ; in 1837, 135, 148, 152, 205 ; in 1838, 209, 224, 241 , 267 ; in 1839, 351 , 356, 357, 359 ; in 1840, 404 ; in 1841 , 433, 458 ; in 1842, 508, 522 ; in 1843 , 604 ; in 1844, 678, 696 ; in 1845, 745, 800.
Arnold, Elias, land scrip to issue to, vi. 549. and another, land scrip to issue
to, vi. 725. Jacob. See Mahlon Ford, vi . 285.
Remington, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 602.
-, Stephen, and others, to be paid for mus kets, vi. 331.
Thomas, payment to be made to, vi. 185 9 William, amount of a loan certificate to be paid to, vi. 146 .
pension to, vi. 189.
increase of pension to, vi. 234.
Arraignment of Offenders, i. 118, 119 ; iv. 118, 777.
Arrents. See Accounts, Public, p. 1. ofpay in the war of 1812, iii . 460.

GENERAL INDEX .

Arrest, exemption of soldiers from, i. 485, 560, 595, 596, 751 ; ii. 136, 137, 674, 788. in civil cases, i. 79 ; v. 321 , 410. removal of persons from one district to another, i. 91. in criminal cases , i. 91 . bail, when admitted on, i. 91. exemption of seamen and marines from, in public service, i. 596. exemption of artificers in public service from , ii. 62. in District of Columbia. See District of Columbia, p. 51 .
Arsenals and Armories, officers and workmen at, i. 352, 555 ; ii. 490 ; v. 512, 513.
their pay, i. 352 ; ii. 61 ; iii . 323 ; v. 260 .
exempted from military duty, &c., ii. 62.
appropriations for, (generally,) i. 328, 352, 555 ; ii . 61 , 183, 227, 241 , 249, 315, 408, 412, 470, 545, 563, 616, 682, 822 ; iii . 359, 408, 480, 539, 563, 634, 687, 749 ; iv. 82, 151, 215, 258, 314, 349, 375, 425, 467, 502, 641 , 642, 643, 674, 675, 748 ; v. 31, 78, 149, 225, 267, 360, 405, 406, 407, 434, 460, 509, 605, 648, 698, 747.
special appropriation for those situated · in Alabama, iv. 304, 675. in Florida, iv. 304 , 502. in Georgia, iii. 480, 563, 634 ; iv. 178 ; v. 78.
in Louisiana, iii . 563 ; iv. 674 ; v. 149. in Maine, iv. 241 , 258 ; v. 78. in Massachusetts, iii. 481 , 563 ; iv. 424,
425, 641, 675 ; v. 78, 360, 406, 407, 434, 509, 605, 698, 747. in Michigan, iv. 551. in Missouri, iv. 179 ; v. 78. in New York, iii . 205 ; iv. 642. in North Carolina, v. 47.
in Pennsylvania, iii . 359, 481 ; iv. 642, 675 ; v. 78, 149.
in South Carolina, v. 66, 434, 605. in Vermont, iv. 151.
in Virginia, iii. 480 ; iv. 424 , 675 ; v. 78,267, 406, 407, 434, 509, 698, 747.
on western waters, ii. 241 ; iii . 788.
special acts or provisions as to the armories at
Harper's Ferry, iv. 675, 680 ; v. 260, 512, 720. bridge at, vi. 848.
Springfield, i . 352 ; iv. 424, 675 ; v. 17, 260, 512, 719.
annual report respecting, i . 352, 556. provision as to crimes respecting, ii . 61 ,
62. to be under direction of the ordnance de-
partment, iii. 204. purchase of sites for, v. 468. Arson, in forts, navy-yards, &c., iv. 115. in the District of Columbia, iv. 448. by persons in navy, i . 713 ; ii . 48.
Artificers, corps of, established, (obsolete ,) ii. 710. in public service , offences of, ii . 61 , 62. enticement of, ii. 61, 62. exemptions of, ii. 62. VOL. VIII. 2

Artillerists,
corps of, i . 366, 430, 483, 552, 750 ; "' 132, 481 , 671 ; iii. 113, 224, 460 ;  256.

inspector of artillery, i . 605. teachers of music, ii. 206.
conductors of artillery, ii. 698 ; iii . 113, 460.

drivers of artillery, ii. 735.

accountability for cannon, &c. , iii . 113, 460.

Asbury, Samuel M., pension to, vi. 655.

Asberry, 906.

increase of pension to, vi.

Asevedo, Manuel, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

Ash, George, right of preemption granted to, ii. 449.

Ashburn, Lewis, payment to be made to administrator of, vi. 333.

Ashe, John B., Representatives of, allowance to, vi. 731.

Ashton, John, pension to, vi. 608.
Aspenwell, Gilbert, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

Aspinwall, Augustus, drawback allowed to, vi. 396.

Assaults, felonious, iv. 121 , 122. on ambassadors, i . 118. on mail carriers, iv. 108. in District of Columbia, iv. 448.
Assayer,

appointment and pay of, i, 247 ; v. 136 duties of, i. 247 ; v. 136. bond of, i. 247, 341 ; v. 137. provision for absence of, v. 137. assistants to, v. 137. oath of, v. 137. at branches, iv. 774 ; v. 652. Assays, of American coinage at the mint, i. 250
iv . 700 ; v. 140, 141 . under whose inspection, i. 250 ; 1
111 ; iii. 403, 774 ; v. 141.

of foreign coins, ii . 374 ; iii . 322, 779 ; i«. 681.
of bullion not for coinage, iv. 278.
of bullion for coinage, v. 138. of prepared ingots , v. 139.
Assent of Congress, to acts of states. See thoro states respectively.
Assessment,

of damages in actions on bonds, &c ., i. 87. oftaxes. See Taxes, p. 167.

Assignees of Choses in Actions, in what cases may sue in courts of United States, i. 79.

in cases of insolvency, priority to United States, i. 263 , 515, 676.

Assignment, of pension, invalid, i . 245 ; ii . 377 ; iii. 411 iv. 270, 530 ; v. 128, 303. of rights under act for armed occupation of Florida, invalid, v . 502. of certificates of locations for military services, invalid, ii . 729 ; v. 497. of certificates of purchase of land authorized, iv . 496 of pay of soldiers, invalid, i. 280. of prize money, ii. 49.
Assistants, to various officers. See the respec tive titles of those officers.

10

GENERAL INDEX.

Atchafalaya R. R. and Banking Company, right | Austria,

of way granted to, v. 196.

Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with,

Atchison, John, judgment against, to be entered

August 27, 1829 .

satisfied, vi. 930 .

Article 1. Liberty of trade established, viii

Atherton, Charles H., payment for land to be

399.

refunded to, vi . 832.

Art. 2. Tonnage duties, & c., viii . 399.

Atkinson, Thomas, released from a bond, vi. 861 .

Art. 3. Duties on imports, viii. 399. Art. 4. Stipulations in the first three ar-

Atlantic, Ship, register to issue for, vi . 878. Attachment,
ofgoods , i. 87, 276. of debts due corporations where the United
States are plaintiffs, iii. 444. Attacks, piratical, iii. 513 ; iv. 115. Attainder,
states forbidden to attaint, i . 15. effect of, i. 18. Attorney- General, appointment and pay of, i. 72, 93, 215,
281 , 497, 730 ; ii . 250 ; iii . 484 ; iv. 416 .
duties at the mint, i. 250 ; ii. 111. to act for United States in suits in the su-
preme court, i. 93.

ticles mutually applicable , viii. 399. Art. 5. Parties placed, as to duties, on the
footing of the most favored nations, viii. 399, 400.
Art. 6. Duties, bounties, and drawbacks on exports, viii. 400.
Art. 7. Coastwise navigation , viii . 400. Art. 8. Vessels of the parties to be equally
favored in purchases, viii. 400. Art. 9. Iffuture favors be granted to any
nation, to be common to the parties, viii. 400.
Art. 10. Consuls, &c . , viii . 400. Art. 11. Individuals may remove or dis-
pose of their property. Property of persons dying. This article not to dero-

to give legal advice to president and heads of departments, i. 93 ; iv. 55.
duty respecting claims before the commis-

gate from the laws of Austria to prevent emigration, viii. 401 . Art. 12 and 13. Duration and ratification

sioners under treaty with Great Britain, i. 523.
additional compensation therefor, i. 523. to advise the treasury solicitor, iv. 416. clerk allowed to, iii. 447.
messenger allowed to, v. 524. to examine the title of sites , & c . , about to
be purchased, v . 468. Attorneys, District. See District Attorneys, p.
49.
Attwater, Reuben, allowance to, for services, vi. 117.

of the treaty, viii . 401 . discriminating duties on vessels of, iv. 814,
816. Authentication ,
of public acts and records, i. 122 ; ii . 298. of records of revolutionary court of ap-
peals , i. 279. Avart, Widow Robert, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi . 553.
Averill, Daniel, pension to, vi. 154. Ebenezer, to be paid for pasturage , &c.,
vi. 328.

Atwater and Daggett, duties to be refunded to , vi. 601.

Henry K., rifle to be presented to , iv. 195 .

Russel, pension to, vi. 516. Atwood, Joshua, Jr., and others, fishing bounty
allowed to, vi. 837.
Aubin, Joshua, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305. Auction, duties on goods at. See Duties, Inter-
nal, p. 56. Auditors,
number of, i. 65 ; iii. 366. pay of, i. 67, 215, 281 , 340, 730 ; ii. 250 ;
iii. 309, 366, 466. duties of, i. 67 ; iii. 366 , 367 , 466, 487. oath of, i. 215. to register warrants for the war and navy

-, Nathan, Jr., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155 . Avery, Amos, increase of pension to, vi. 84.
Ebenezer, increase of pension to, vi. 85. John J., allowance to, for damages, vi. 618 .
" Park, increase of pension to, vi. 84. " Saltmarsh, and Company, to be paid for property destroyed, vi . 822.  Thatcher, duties to be repaid to , vi. 305
Thomas, pension of, increased, vi. 69. Awkward, Henry, payment to be made to, vi .
616.

departments, iii. 367, 689. for the post-office department, v. 81 , 83,
84.
pay of, v. 89. Audrain, Peter, compensation as clerk allowed
to, vi . 98, 180. Auger, Mr., to be paid for bust of Charles Jus-
tin Ellsworth, v. 173.

Axson, Dr. Samuel J., pay as surgeon allowed to heirs of, vi. 494.
Ayer, Elijah, Heirs of, grant of land to, ii. 712. Jr., grant of land to, ii. 712.
Aylward, James, duties remitted to, vi. 30.
B.

Augmentation of Armaments, by foreign ships, prohibited, iii. 448. See Neutrality, p . 123.
Austin, Caleb, pension allowed to, vi. 23. David, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 557.
John P., and another, claim of, to be examined, vi. 718. --, Major Loring, claim of, to be settled and expenses paid, vi . 210. -, Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 100.

Babbitt, Amey, pension to, vi. 874. " Edward B., credit allowed to, vi. 548 . " Fitz Henry, pension allowed to mother
of, vi. 547. " Jacob, released from a bond, vi. 292 . -, Mary J. , pension to, vi. 665.
Babbitt's Anti-Attrition Metal, purchase of, v. 547, 636.
Babcock, Henry, bounty, arrearages, & c. , of, to be paid, vi. 357.

GENERAL INDEX .

11

Babcock, Samuel, balance due his representa- | Baker, Lois, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi.

tives to be paid, iv. 698.

155.

Backus, Charles D. , claim of, to be settled and

-, Malyne, pension to, vi . 190.

paid, vi. 155 . Bacon, Andrew, pension to, vi. 417.

Stephen, to be paid for a horse destroyed, vi. 209.

Bacot, Thomas W., allowance to, for expenses , vi. 290.

vi. 709.

" to be paid for expenditures,

Thomas M., pension to, vi. 68. William, to be paid as surgeon, vi . 621 .
" allowance to, for damages, vi. 623.

Baden, William, pension to, vi. 612.

Balances, standard to be made for and sent to

Baggage, exemption from duty, i . 661 ; iii .

each state, v. 267.

782 ; v. 560.

Balastier and Company, drawbacks allowed to,

Baggs, John, Jr., pension to, vi. 24.

vi. 367.

Bagnall, Richard, to be paid for bricks, vi . 554. | Balch, John, to be paid for cables, &c., vi.

Bail,

789.

in criminal cases, i . 91 , 334.

Baldridge, James, land title confirmed to, vi.

in civil cases, i. 278.

682.

provision where the defendant is after- Baldwin, Alfred, pension to, vi. 578.

wards arrested in another district , i . 727.

Isaac, and another, land patent to issue

in suits for duties and penalties, i . 421 , 676.

to, vi. 327.

by whom taken , i. 278, 334 ; ii . 679 ; iii. 350.

Thomas, pension allowed to, vi. 26, 177.

by clerks, i. 278.

P., and another, balance due

by commissioners , i . 334 ; ii . 679, 680 ; iii. 350.
by judges, i. 91 , 334. for good behavior, i . 609 ; v. 214. for property seized, may be taken in vaca-
tion, iv. 503. excessive, not to be required, i. 21. discharged in cases removed from state

to be endorsed on judgment, vi. 390. -, Waterman, pension to, vi. 74.
Ball, Daniel, pension to, vi. 68. -, Mottrom, to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 217. Thomas, pension to , vi. 609.
Ballentine, David, forfeited land scrip allowed to, vi. 783.

courts, i. 79.
under neutrality acts, v. 214. in District of Columbia. See that title, p.
51.
Bailey, Anselm, pension to, vi. 416. Daniel, pension to, vi. 177. Elijah, and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi . 324. Ephraim, pension to, vi. 24. increase of pension to, vi. 68. Hezekiah, pension to, vi. 111 . increase of pension to, vi . 140 . John, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Ballowe, Robert, allowance for damages, to, vi. 146.
Baltimore, port duty, ii. 103, 316 ; iii. 125, 665 ; v.602. payment of interest to, iv. 177. authorized to use a certain building, v. 717. Citizens of, to be compensated for vessels sunk, vi. 265, 273. Bible Society, duties remitted to , vi. 162.
Mayor and Council of, claim of, and interest, allowed , vi . 411 .
and Ohio Railroad, branch to Wash-

Jonathan N., overpayment to be repaid to, vi. 264.
Martha, and others, interest allowed to, vi. 562.
Peggy, allowed to enter land, vi . 213. Robert, pension to, vi. 24. Samuel A. , authorized to surrender land , and scrip to issue to, vi. 593.

ington authorized, iv. 268, 476, 672, 757. and Susquehannah Railroad, duties
remitted to, vi. 740.
Vessels sunk in Defence of, value of, to be ascertained, vi. 447.
memorial of owners of, referred , vi. 552.
third au-

Thomas, pension to, vi. 233.

ditor to take testimony as to, vi. 570.

-, William, pension to, vi . 24.

Bancroft, Ebenezer, increase of pension to, vi.

increase of pension to, vi. 101.

69.

Bainbridge, Captain, rewards to, for captures, ii. 818, 831. -- , Joseph, allowance to, vi . 272.
Bair, John, pension to, vi. 113. Baird, Absalom, account of, to be settled, and
full pay allowed to , vi. 641 . Robert, pension to, vi. 91 .
Baker, Absalom, pension to, vi. 417.

Layzal, payment to, iii. 211 . -, Layzel, penalty remitted to, vi. 138 . -, Robert, pension to, vi. 24. Banezakiewitz, Lewis, and others, grant of land to, iv. 743. Bank Bills and Notes,
no bank notes under ten dollars, and after 3d March, 1837, none under twenty dol-

Glover, pension to, vi. 190. -, Jacob, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
James, to be paid for property impressed, vi. 707.
--, John, land claim confirmed to representatives of, vi . 202.
allowance to, vi . 884. land entry confirmed to, vi. 927. Joseph, allowance for damages to, vi . 146.

lars, to be paid by the United States, v. 9. Repealed, v. 440 . issue of, by dead corporations forbidden , v. 297 .
Bank of Alexandria, (D. C.) ii . 621 ; iii. 570, 618 ; v. 4, 254.
Bank of Chillicothe, allowance to, for interest and advances, vi . 414 .
Bank of Columbia, (D. C.) iii . 570, 618, 619 ; V.. 4, 321 ; vi. 243.

. INDEX GENERAL
123

Bank of Detroit, act of Michigan respecting, annulled, ii. 444.
Bank of the Metropolis, (D. C. ) iii. 387, 570, 618 ; v. 1 , 2, 69, 232, 449 ; vi . 802.
Bank of Milwaukee, (Wisc .) v. 198 . Bank of Mineral Point, ( Wisc .) v. 198. Bank of Potomac, (D. C.) ii . 633 ; iii. 570, 620 ;
v. 1 , 69, 232, 449 ; vi. 802. Bank ofthe United States,
first bank, i. 191 , 196, 573 ; ii . 274, 423, 695.
authorized to loan money to the United States, i. 329, 345, 395, 404, 418, 419, 489, 534, 607, 609, 726 ; ii. 60, 202, 247, 292, 349, 350, 551 , 610.
second bank, charter of, iii . 269 , 508 ; v. 48.
authorized to make loans to United States, iii. 583, 636 ; iv. 33, 74, 129.
frauds on, punished, iii. 275, 276, 508. loan office, duties by, iii. 361 ; v. 8, 9. bribery of president and directors, iii. 508. frauds in elections punished, iii. 508. forgery ofnotes of, iii. 275. false plates of bills of, iii. 276. right of way granted to, vi. 579. laws authorizing the United States Bank
to pay pensions repealed, v. 16. notes of, receivable by United States, iii.
274. Repealed, v. 48. secretary of the treasury to act as agent of
the United States in regard to property
in the bank, v. 56. directors of the bank to furnish statements
to him, v. 56. secretary of the treasury authorized to
settle for United States stock in, v. 200 . suits by, not to abate on expiration of
charter, v. 211. sale of two bonds of, authorized, v. 296.
Bank of Washington, ii. 625 ; iii. 570, 618 ; v. 1, 69, 232, 449 ; vi. 802.
Bankruptcy, power to pass bankrupt laws, i . 13. first bankrupt act, ii. 19, 92, 164. Repealed, ii. 248.
bankrupt act of 1841 , v. 440. Repealed, v. 614.
note of decisions, ii. 19. Banks,
charters of, in District of Columbia. See that title, p. 51.
no act of any territory incorporating banks to go into effect until approved by congress, v. 61 .
issue of bills after expiration of charter forbidden, v. 297. Richard T., allowance to, for losses, vi.
859.
Bara, Nicholas, land claim not confirmed to, vi. 683 .
Burbarick, John, increase of pension to, vi . 85.
Barbary Powers, consuls to, i. 256 ; ii. 608.
act for protection against, ii . 129. additional duty laid to defray the expense
of protection , ii. 291 . continuation of the act laying an addition-
al duty , ii . 391 , 437, 456, 511 , 614, 675, 809.
Mediterranean fund, ii. 232.

Barber, Noyes, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 324. Robert, Jr., receipts of, to be received for land, vi. 876.
Barbour, James, Jr., account of, to be settled, vi. 436. Philip, value of land patented to, to be estimated, vi. 236.
Barclay, Thomas, accounts of, vi. 72. Bard, Archibald, and another, certificates of, to
be settled, vi. 392.
Barges, Public, to be built, iii. 3, 217. Bargy, Peter, Jr., and others, payment to be made
to, for services, vi. 541 . -- to be paid for damages, vi . 760 .
Barham, Fielding, and another, land patent to issue to, vi . 563.
Barham, Frances, Representatives of, and another, land patent to issue to, vi. 563.
Barkelow, Farrington, amount due to be ascer tained and paid to, iii. 211 ; vi . 146.
Barker, James, pension to, vi. 324. Josiah, land claim confirmed to, vi.
534 .
Barlow, Joseph, pension to, vi. 417. Barnard, Dodd, and others, duties to be refund-
ed to , vi. 380.
Barnes, Cæsar, pension allowed to, vi. 32. Calvin, pension allowed to, vi. 177. Elijah, pension allowed to, vi. 25.
? Francis, claim of, to be paid, vi . 564. Hugh, increase of pension to, vi. 180 . arrears of pension to be paid to,
vi. 459.
John, payment to representatives of, vi. 838.
Margaret, pension to, vi. 827. -, Philip, and others, authorized to surrender land certificates, vi. 492.
Sibel, pension to, vi. 787. William, payment to, vi. 185. Barnett, James, five years' pay allowed to, vi. 428 .
, interest on commutation allowed to, vi. 551 .
Barney, Sarah, pension to, vi. 736. Barnitz, Jacob, allowance to, vi. 80. Barns, Hugh, pension to, vi. 139. Barnum, Enock, pension to, vi. 190.
Stephen, increase of pension to, vi. 114.
Barnwell, Robertson and, duties to be refunded to, vi. 471.
Baron, Marguerite, land title confirmed to, vi. 575.
Barr, Alexander, pension to, vi. 139. Barracks, Appropriations for,
army barracks, in Arkansas, iv. 674 ; v. 406, 407, 434.
in Connecticut, iv. 356, 424. in Florida, iv. 424 , 644 ; v. 30. in Iowa, v. 698. in Louisiana, iii. 463, 633, 687 ; iv.
594, 644, 674 ; v. 149, 406. in Maine, iv. 355, 424 ; v. 459. in Maryland, iv. 356, 644, 674 ; v.
604.
in Michigan, iv. 425 ; v. 459. in Missouri, iv. 424 ; v . 406, 407. in New York, i. 494 ; iii. 408, 481 ; iv.
151 , 215, 258, 502 ; v. 152, 361 , 406 407, 434, 459, 606.

GENERAL INDEX .

13

Barracks, &c., (continued. ) in Pennsylvania, iii. 687. in Virginia, iv. 425 ; v. 30. in Wisconsin, iv. 258, 356, 424, 466, 644 .
generally, ii. 183, 683 ; iii. 633 ; iv. 258, 466, 501 , 643, 674, 747 ; v. 30, 148, 224,

Bastrop, Baron, land claim confirmed to, ii. 727.
Bachelder, Gideon, and others, claim of, to be paid, vi. 935.
Batcheldor, Archelaus, pension of, vi . 23. James, pension of, vi. 24.
Bate, John, allowance to, vi. 201.

359, 361 , 405, 407, 433, 434, 508, 604, Bateman , Henry, pension to, vi. 154.

697, 746.

-, Smith, rifle to be presented to, iv. 195.

for marine barracks,

Bates, Frederick, allowance to, vi. 174.

in Florida, v. 28. in Massachusetts, v. 28.

Batman, Henry, grant of a land patent to, vi. 230.

in New Hampshire, iv. 21 ; v. 29, 156. Baton Rouge, president authorized to exchange

in New York, iv. 671 ; v. 233, 363,

lands in, vi. 315.

400, 420, 502.

Batson, James, pension to, vi. 101 .

in Virginia, v. 28.

Battery, (New York,) exchange for, vi . 263.

in Washington, ( D. C.) ii. 249, 311 , Baughan, Augustine, exempted from imprison-

398 ; iv. 356, 376 ; v. 156.

ment for debt of United States, vi . 50.

generally, ii. 79, 122, 123, 209, 249, 311, Baum, Martin, exchange of land with, allowed,

398, 412, 467, 546, 562, 617, 685, 822 ; iii.

iv. 370.

677, 764 ; iv. 21, 141 , 207, 751 ; v. 29, Baxter, Francis, pension to, vi. 24.

156, 233, 400, 420, 502, 618, 703, 793.

John W. C., bond of, vi. 175.

Barrague, Antoine, allowance to, for property lost, vi. 408.

-, Stephen, account of, to be settled, vi. 247.

Barrett, James, grant of preemption right to, vi. 726.

Zebulon, land warrant to issue to, vi. 782.

Barron, Ann M. , half-pay of her father allowed Bayard, Samuel, Executor of John, claim of,

to, vi. 603.

to be settled and paid, vi. 574.

" Elias, increase of pension to, vi . 93. James, duties refunded to, vi. 271. , patents of, extended, vi. 678.
Barrow, Matthew , to be paid for expenses of suit, vi. 237.

Baylics, Samuel, payment to be made to, vi. 320.
Baylor, Ann D., allowance to, vi. 351. allowance to, for the use of
heirs of J. W. Baylor, vi. 437.

Barry, Edward, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi. 520.
Barstow, John, and others, discharged from a note , vi. 665.
Barter, John, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Barth, Nicholas, increase of pension to, vi. 115. Bartle, Andrew, pension to, vi. 111.

allowance to, of five years' full pay of Geo. Baylor as colonel, vi. 491 .
-, Cyrus A., sword to be presented to, iv. 792.
John Walker, allowance for use of children of, vi. 351.
-, Walker, increase of pension to, vi. 92.

Bartlett, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi. Bayly, Mountjoy, commutation of full pay to

69.

be paid to, vi. 427.

David, allowance to, for expenses, &c . , Baynham, William, interest to be paid to, vi

vi. 623.

89.

Edwin, allowance to, for diplomatic services, vi. 894.
John, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 . Jonathan, bond of, vi. 175.

Beach, Jesse, pension to, vi. 177. Beacham, Thomas, allowance to, for property
destroyed, vi. 626. Beacons. See Buoys, p. 20.

Samuel, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241. William, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 291 .
Barton, Henry, pension to, vi. 418. pension to, vi . 734.
Job, pension to, vi. 612. Robert, certificates of enrolment of his vessels , vi . 20. Thomas P., payment to be made to, vi. 667.

Beasts, imported for breed, to be exempt from duties, i. 324, 699 ; v. 561 .
Beall, Samuel B. , final certificates of, to be paid, vi. 249.
William D., pay of inspector allowed to, vi. 110.
Bean, Ebenezer, pension allowed to, vi. 23. increase of pension to, vi. 123.
John, pension allowed to, vi. 26. Jonathan L., payment to, v. 161 .

William, pension to, vi. 154. - authorized to withdraw a land
entry, and transfer payments, vi . 216. Barton, Willoughby, contract of, to be settled,
vi. 377.
Bartow, A., boat register allowed to, vi . 914 . Bartram, Job, pension to, vi. 24.

1 Mark, and another, allowance to, for R. H., and another, supplies, iv. 433.
Beard, David, amount of a forfeiture paid to, vi. 300, 450.
Hugh, authorized to enter land, vi. 551.
William C., pension to, vi . 690 .

increase of pension to, vi . 101. Beardsley, Ichabod, pension to, vi . 802.

Bashford, Francis, pension to, vi. 648.

-, John, Jr. , increase of pension to, vi. 76.

Basset, James, heirs of, prize money to be paid Beatty, Edward, authorized to enter land, vi.

to, vi. 778.

795.

Bassett, Edward, increase of pension to, vi . 83. | Beaubien, Josette, and Children, authorized to

Joseph, pension to, vi. 827.

exchange lands, vi . 676.

Nathaniel, land patent to issue to, vi. Beaugrand, Jean Baptiste, and others, allowance

498 .

to, for property destroyed, vi. 534.

14

GENERAL INDEX .

Beaugrand, J. B. , und another, land patent to | Belgium, (continued.) issue to, vi. 413.

Reaumarchais, Baron de, payment to, ii. 389. Beaumont, Edmund, discharged from a judg-
ment, vi. 79.
-, Margaret, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

Art. 12. Vessels provided with a passport, &c., to be recognized as national vessels, viii. 610.
Art. 13. Parts of the cargoes of vessels may remain on board in the respective

Beauvois, Antoine, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

ports without charge, viii. 610. Art. 14. Imported goods deposited in ware-

St. James, and others, release of land to, vi. 386.

houses to pay no warehouse charges, other than those imported in vessels un-

Bebee, Paul, pension to, vi. 123. Bechtler, Christopher, letters patent to issue to,
vi. 468. Beck and Harvey, duties to be refunded to, vi.
246.

der the flag of the country, viii. 610. Art. 15. Favors, privileges, & c. , granted
to any other state to become common to citizens, &c., of both states. Duties to be the same as those levied on goods of

Becker, Henry, pension allowed to, vi. 460 .
" Jacob, pension restored to, vi. 804. John P., pension to, vi. 699.
Becket, Humphrey, pension to, vi. 75. Beckham, William, allowance to widow and
children of, vi. 389. Beckit, Humphrey, pension to, vi. 417.

any other foreign country, viii. 610. Art. 16. Assistance, &c., in case of ship.
wreck, viii. 610. Art. 17. Consuls and vice-consuls.
serters. Certain seamen exempt frDoem-
these provisions, viii. 612. Art. 18. No transit duties chargeable on

Bedinger, George M., pension to, vi . 844.

articles from the United States , viii. 612.

Beebee, Samuel, to be paid for a lost loan cer-

Art. 19. This treaty to be in force for ten

tificate, vi. 71. Beekman, Theophilus E., pension to, vi. 648. Beeman, Ebenezer, pension restored to , vi . 417. Beer, Porter, and Ale, importation of, regulated,
i. 701.
Belding, Chaunceyand Samuel, and others, bond of, to be cancelled, vi. 806.
Belger, James, pension allowed to, vi. 463. Belgium ,
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with, November 10, 1845, viii . 606.
Article 1. Freedom of commerce between
the two countries. The same duties,

years, and until either nation shall have given notice of a desire to terminate it after ten years, viii. 612. Art. 20. Ratifications to be exchanged at Washington, within twelve months, viii. 612. duties on vessels and cargoes from , to be the same as on Dutch vessels and car-
goes, v. 152. Belknap, William G., authorized to locate land,
vi. 784.
Bell, Captain Frederick M., Heirs of, land warrant to issue to, vi. 794.

&c., to be paid by the citizens of either
country, viii. 606. Art. 2. Belgian vessels shall pay in the

James, account of, to be settled, vi . 598. Jesse, authorized to locate land, vi. 523.
John, pension allowed to, vi. 26, 154.

ports of the United States no other or higher duties of tonnage than paid by vessels ofthe United States, viii . 606. Art. 3. Vessels of the United States to
pay in the ports of Belgium no other or higher duties than are paid by Belgian
vessels, viii. 606. Art. 4. Restitution guarantied of certain
duties levied by the Netherlands, viii. 608. Art. 5. Steam vessels to be exempt from
duties of tonnage, viii. 608. Art. 6. Coasting trade, viii . 608.

, payment to be made to, vi. 184.  Polly, alias Polly Collins, authorized to enter land, vi. 361.
William, letters patent granted to, vi. 378.
H., purchase of patents of, v. 126. Bellamy, Aaron, to be paid for a vessel lost in
the public service, vi. 564. Belleview,
to be laid out in lots, &c ., v. 70.
proceeds of land sales to be paid to, v 178 .
Bellows, Ezra , pension to , vi . 139.

Art. 7. Articles proceeding from the soil,
&c., of Belgium, to pay no other duties than if imported under the flag of the United States . Reciprocal benefits to

Belt, Benjamin M., to be paid for a certain desk, vi. 314.
Bender, George, allowed pay of major, vi. 642 Benedict, George, pension to, vi . 91 .

importations into Belgium. Regula-
tions, viii. 608. Art. 8. The articles imported into the
United States in Belgian vessels to pay no other duties than if imported in ves-

--, Timothy, pension to, vi. 417. Benefit of Clergy, not allowed, i. 119.
Benjamin, Meigs D., duties to be refunded to, vi. 798.
Bennet, Benjamin, authorized to relinquish

sels of the most favored nations, viii.

land, vi. 629.

608.

9 Isaac, increase of pension to, vi . 92.

Art. 9. Exportations by Belgian or United States vessels, viii. 608.
Art. 10. Prem uns, drawbacks, & c. , al-

9 John, pension to, vi. 645. and Morté, allowance to creditors of, vi. 428 .

lowed upon goods imported directly from one ofthe two countries, &c ., viii. 610. Art. 11. Provisions in article 10 not to
apply to the aportition of salt, & c. , or the produce of national fisheries, vi.i. 610.

Stephen, pension to, vi. 417. William P., to be discharged from prison, vi. 152. Bennett, Elijah, pension allowed to, vi. 25.
George W., authorized to relinquish and enter land, vi. 630.

GENERAL INDEX.

15

Bennett, Joshua, to be paid for a horse lost, vi. | Bingaman, Charlotte C. , and others, authorized

305 .

to locate land, vi. 509.

Thomas, pension to, vi . 809.

Benning, William , to have sole control of affairs

of" Anacostia Bridge Co., " vi. 375.

Benson and Blodget, duties to be repaid to, vi.

John,

241 .

George, allowed to enter certain lands,

v. 715.

Benton, John, pension allowed to, vi. 26.

-, Selah, pension allowed to, vi. 104.

Beauvais, St. John, grant of land to, i. 222.

Berard, Baptiste, land claim confirmed to, vi . 928.

Bergen, Elizabeth, payment to, ii. 120.
Bernard, Hyacinth, land claim confirmed to, vi. 408.

Bingcy, John W. , duties to be refunded to, vi. 359. Binnion, John, allowed to withdraw his entries,
vi. 116.
Bird, Benjamin, loan office certificates of, to be liquidated, vi. 576. Gustavus A., rifle to be presented to, iv. 195.
Herman, pension allowed to, vi. 33. Joseph, pension to, vi. 75. Birdsall, Benjamin, account of, to be settled, vi. 214.
Birdseye, Nathan G. , lands to be released to, vi. 235.
Bispham, John E. , payment to be made to, vi. 820.

Berrien, John, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 565.
Berry, Bartholomew, pension to, vi . 82. Benjamin, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 213. James, pension to, vi. 91. John, pension allowed to, vi . 67, 140. William, pension allowed to, vi. 154.
Berryman, Newton, to be paid for services as clerk, vi. 549.
Berzat, Susan, Widow of Gabriel, title to land confirmed to, vi. 276.
Besly, Sarah, pension to, &c. , vi . 838. Bessom, Philip, allowance to, for expenses, &c.,
vi. 569.

Bishop, Levi, pension to, vi. 140. Black, Jacob, land claim confirmed to, vi. 512. Blackburn, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 102. Blackman, David, pension to, vi . 24. Blackemore, Sarah, pension to, vi. 910. Black- River, ( Indians,) treaty with, vii. 503. Blackstone, John, release of land to, vi. 818. Blackwell, Jacob A., extra duty to be repaid, vi.
320 .
Thomas, five years' pay allowed to, vi. 436 .
Captain William, land warrant to his daughter, E. Scott, vi. 524.
Blagrove, William, discharged from a judg ment, vi. 304.

Betton, Solomon D. , judgment against sureties Blaisdell, Enoch, pension to, vi. 631 .

of, to be opened, vi. 864.

Jonathan M., moiety of a judgment

Bible Societies, duties to be refunded to, vi. 162.

to be paid to, vi. 595.

Society, Philadelphia, duties remitted to, vi. 116.
Bickley, Daniel, and C. Clark, to be paid the amount of a bill of exchange, vi. 247.
Biddle, Captain James, and Officers, medals to be presented to, iii. 254, 341 ; vi . 181 .

Blake, Charles, pension to, vi. 651 . Edward, executrix exempted from suit,
vi. 785.
Blakely, Captain Johnston, medal to, iii. 246. loss of, at sea, iii. 295.

-, Clement, payment to, ii. 121 . J., payment to, iv. 148.

Blakeley, Johnston, to be credited for advances, vi. 288.

-, Richard, accounts of, to be settled, vi . | Blakely, Josiah, land patent to issue to repre

407.

sentatives of, vi. 836.

Biennial Register of officers to be printed, iii. 342 ; iv. 608 ; v. 339.
Bienvenu, Brothers, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.

Blakesly, Enos, pension to, vi. 24. Blanc, John, new letters patent granted to, vi.
767 .
Blanchard, Edward, account of, vi. 18.

Bigger, James, and his Company, full pay allowed to, vi. 352.
Biggs, William, authorized to enter land, vi . 353 .
Bigham, William W., authorized to enter lands in lieu of others, vi. 780.
Bill, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 85. " Joshua, pension to, vi. 418. of Rights, i. 21.
Billiette, John Battiste, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.
Billings, John S. , increase of pension to, vi. 828. Bills of Attainder, not to be passed, i. 15.
of Barks,

Thomas, letters patent extended to, vi. 589, 748.
-, William, pension to, vi. 140. Blauvelt, Abraham, pension allowed to, vi . 26 Blean, Robert, to be paid for materials, vi . 305. Bledsoe, George, pension allowed to, vi. 26. Blever, James, increase of pension to, vi. 84. Bliss, Moses, allowance to, for fees, vi. 634. Blodget, Rebecca, value of her right of dower
of, to be ascertained, vi. 347.
value of her right of dower allowed to, vi. 378.
allowance to, in full for dower, vi. 517.

issue of, after expiration of charter, forbid- Blood, Francis , pension to, vi. 73.

den, v. 297.

Bloom, Peter, and others, land title confirmed

when receivable for public dues, v . 9, 440.

to, vi. 859.

- of Credit, issue of, by states, prohibited, i . | Blount, William, expense of committee on im-

15.

peachment of, to be paid , i. 544.

of Exchange, when suable in courts of United States , i. 79.

Willie, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 624.

-- , John, land title confirmed to, vi. 557.

Bloomfield, Thomas, pension to, vi. 417.

Bindon, Joseph, grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi. Blue- Book, register of office-holders to be pub

43

lished, iii. 342 ; iv . 608 ; v. 339.

16

GENERAL INDEX.

Boardman, Elijah, pension to, vi . 24 .

Boone, John, pension to, vi . 653.

" John, authorized to locate and enter Booth, Daniel, land to be released to, vi. 235.

land, vi. 362.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 417.

--, Seth, pension allowed to, vi. 3.

Borell, Eugene, land claim confirmed to, vi. 528

Boden, James, pension to, vi. 75.

Borey, John, patent certificate to be surrendered

Bogart, Martha, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.

to, vi. 780.

Boggs and Thompson, drawbacks allowed to, vi . 812.
Bogy, Joseph, to be paid for rations, vi. 487.
9 land patent to issue to, vi. 498. claim of, for Indian depredations,

Borum, Edward, pension to, vi . 179. Boss, Joseph, pension to, vi. 417. Boston, Frigate, to be rebuilt, ii . 699.
" Solomon, judgment against, discharged, vi. 42.

to be settled, vi. 581 , 571.

Bostwick, Elijah, allowance to, for costs and

authorized to locate land, vi.

expenditures, vi . 12.

823 .

Melancton W., bond of, to be can-

Bohannan, Stephen, pension to, vi. 638. Boilers,

celled, vi. 806. , Oliver, increase of pension to, vi. 83.

of steamboats to be tested, v. 252, 261 , 304 . Bosworth, Jacob, land warrant granted to, vi.

improvements in, v. 627.

532.

Boisgervais, James H., claim of, to be settled Bouchard, Joseph, debentures to be paid to, vi.

and paid, vi. 195.

187 .

Boles, Absalom, authorized to surrender land Boucherie, Antony, allowed to obtain a patent

and receive certificate, vi . 548.

for manufacturing sugar, vi. 70.

Bolton, Elizabeth, change of name, vi. 528.

Boulden, James W., claim of, to be settled, vi.

William Compton, change of name, vi.

633.

528 .

Boundaries,

Bond, Lucy, allowance to representatives of, vi. 590..

between United States and Mexico, iv. 558.

Mary Ann, authorized to enter land, vi. 374.

western boundary of Arkansas, iv. 40. between Arkansas and Louisiana, iv. 276.

-- Robert, preemption right granted to, vi. 527.

between United States and British Provinces, iv. 262 ; v. 402, 413, 485.

William, pension to, vi. 154. Bonds, Penal,
judgment in equity on, i. 87. for duties, how suable, & c., i. 676.

running the line fixed by treaty of 1842, with Great Britain, v . 623.
expense of negotiations with Great Britain respecting, ii. 148.

of public officers, regulated, iii . 582. of secretary of senate, iii. 212.

boundary of United States as established by treaties

of clerk of house of representatives, iii . 212. of consuls, i. 256.

with Great Britain, viii. 55, 249, 274, 572.

of clerks of courts, i. 76. of marshals, i. 87 ; ii. 372. of officers of mint, i . 341 .

with Spain, viii . 138, 140 , 254. with Mexico, viii . 374, 464. Bounty,

of pursers in navy, ii . 536 ; iii . 350.

on fisheries,

of surveyor-general, iii. 697. of postmasters, iv. 103 ; v. 82.

obsolete acts, i. 27, 229, 260 , 533, 692 ; ii. 36, 436, 552.

of public officers increased , iii. 582. of officers not impaired by removal from

acts in force, iii . 49, 254, 314 , 351 , 417, 520 ; iv. 38.

office, iii. 723, 724. of custom-house officers , i. 44, 171 , 704,

for destroying enemy ships, (obsolete, ) ii. 53, 761 , 816.

705 ; v. 661 . for duties, i . 42, 168, 171 , 174 , 372 ; ii. 72,
315, 471 , 513 ; iii. 737 ; v. 205, 242.

for prisoners of war, (obsolete,) iii. 81 , 105. to Canadian volunteers, iii. 256, 301 , 393,
641 .

See also the titles of the respective officers giving bonds.
Bones, John, allowed to withdraw a land entry, vi. 200.

on captures, i. 715, 716. on negroes captured in slave vessels, iii.
533 .
on enlistment in the army, i. 222, 224 , 242,

Bon Homme Richard, prize money to be distributed among crew of, v. 158.

409, 414, 438, 483, 484 , 604 , 751 ; ii. 704, 788 ; iv. 647 ; v . 260.

Bonnel, Paul, pension to , vi. 179. Bonnell, Joseph, pension to , vi. 910. Booker, Richard, and his Company, claim of,
for clothing, to be settled, vi. 799.

to army in lands. See Lands, Public, p. 94.
on exportation of fish, i. 27 ; ii. 436 ; iii. 50. See Fisheries, p. 63.

Books, copyright of. See Copyright, p. 41 .

Bourg, John Baptiste, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

of suitors, when to be produced in court, i . | Bourgoud, Antoine, to be paid for damage to

82 .

property, vi . 323.

duty on , v . 557, 560. Boon, Robert H. , payment for services of, vi .
431 .
-, Squire, pension to, vi. 90.

Bourguin, Edward, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Bourne, Silvanus, repayment for advances by, authorized, vi. 27.

Boone, Daniel, title to land confirmed to, vi . 127. Bouton, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi.

1 Hampton L., allowance to, for services,

114 .

vi. 371.

Boutwell, Abraham E. , pension to, vi. 608.

GENERAL INDEX .

17

Bowen, George, to be paid for carrying the Branch Mints, (continued . )

mail, vi. 583.

further provision as to the officers in , v.

Bowers, Balaam, pension to, vi. 656.

147, 602.

Jonathan, pension to, vi. 24.

oath of officers in, by whom to be taken,

increase of pension to, vi.

iv. 774 ; v. 652.

83.

Branch Pilots, of Louisiana, allowed to enter

Bowman, Dorothy, allowance to, vi. 867.

certain lands, v. 715.

John, allowance to, for property lost, vi. 408.
L., and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 808.

Brandy, in what casks to be imported, i . 701 ; iv. 235 , 373.
drawback on brandy, iv. 373.

William, authorized to relinquish and | Brandywine, Frigate, appropriation for repair-

enter land, vi. 646.

ing and fitting out, iv. 370.

pension to, vi. 804.

Branson, Nathan, duties to be repaid to, vi. 287.

Bowne, Robert and Robert H., debentures to be | Brashears, Ann, land patent to be issued to, vi.

paid to, vi. 187.

436.

Boyer, William, pension to, vi. 177.

Brashiers, Samuel, release of land to, vi. 342.

Boyd, Alexander, land claim confirmed to, vi. Bratton, William, land warrant to be issued to,

564.

vi. 65.

James, pension to, vi. 732.

Brawn, Daniel, pension allowed to , vi. 23.

Heirs of, grant of land to, ii. 712. John P., appropriation for, iii . 359. Joseph C., claim of, allowed to his representatives, vi. 295. Boyle, Captain, and Company, Act of 1822, c. 48, extended to, vi. 328.
Thomas H., right to enter land, and pay of captain allowed to, vi. 169.

Brazil , Treaty with Brazil, December 12, 1828, viii. 390. Article 1. Peace to be established, viii . 390.
Art. 2. Parties on the footing of the most favored nations ; the relations between
Brazil and Portugal excepted, viii. 390.

Boyles, Thomas H., Representatives of, authorized to locate land, vi . 597. seven years' half-pay to be

Art. 3. Free intercourse, coasting trade excepted, viii. 390.
Art. 4. Vessels of both countries on the

paid to, vi. 738. Brace, Stephen, account of, to be settled, vi.
302 .

same footing as to the importation offoreign goods into either country. Same as to exportation. What vessels to be con-

Bracket, Heard, pension to, vi . 543.
Braden, Elizabeth, land warrant to issue to, vi. 241 .

sidered Brazilian, viii. 391.
Art. 5. Duties on imports and exports, viii. 391 .

Bradford, Charles, pension of, to be paid to his representatives, vi. 306. Dunscomb, salary of consul allowed to, vi. 793. -, George, increase of pension to, vi. 68.

Art. 6. All merchants, and the business of merchants, placed on the most favored footing, viii. 391 .
Art. 7. Citizens and subjects to be secured from detention, and to be indemnified if
detained, viii. 391.

James, claim of, to land, confirmed, vi. 681.
-H., pension to, vi. 732. Lieutenant- Colonel, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.

Art. 8. Vessels in distress, viii. 392.
Art. 9. Property captured by pirates to be restored, viii. 392.
Art. 10. Assistance in case of shipwreck, viii. 392.

Bradley, Aner, pension to, vi. 25.

Art. 11. Provision as to personal property.

Nathaniel, increase of pension to, vi. 77.
Peter, pension to, vi. 527. Brady, Freeman, to be paid for labor, vi. 712.
Guards, claims of, to be settled and paid, vi. 885.
James, duplicate land warrant to be issued to, vi. 258. Bragdon, Samuel, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, .vi. 606.
Brahan, John, allowance to, for clerk hire, vi . 392. accounts of, and release to heirs of, vi. 746.

Real property, viii. 392. Art. 12. Special protection to persons and
their property, viii. 392. Art. 13. Liberty of conscience. Burial,
viii. 393.
Art. 14. Free ships make free goods ; con-
traband goods excepted . Free ships to make free persons, unless officers and soldiers of the enemy, viii . 393. Art. 15. Qualification as to the principle
that free ships make free goods, viii. 393.
Art. 16. Contraband goods, what shall be, viii. 394.

Brahany, James, to be discharged from prison, vi. 147.

Art. 17. All other merchandise free, viii. 394.

Brainard, Asahel, pension to , vi. 884. arrears of pension to be paid
to, vi. 934. Elijah, pension to , vi . 90 .

Art. 18. Contraband goods subject to forfeiture. If articles contraband shall be
delivered up, the vessel not to be detained, viii. 394.

Brainerd, John, and others, forfeitures to be refunded to, vi. 921 .
Branch Mints,
established, iv. 774, 775.

Art. 19. Blockades, viii . 394. Art. 20. Examinations of vessels , viii. 395. Art. 21. Vessels to be provided with cer
tain papers, viii. 395.

VOL. VIII.

3

18

GENERAL INDEX .

Brazil, (continued.) Art . 22. Vessels under convoy, viii. 395. Art. 23. Prize courts to take cognizance of

prizes, viii. 395. Art. 24. Letters of marque not to be ac-

cepted to take part in war between either of the parties hereto and other powers,
viii. 396 .

Art. 25. Provisions in case of war between the parties, viii . 396.
Art. 26. No debts, &c., to be forfeited, viii. 396.

Art. 27. Immunities of public agents, viii. 396 .

Art. 28. Consuls , viii . 396. Art. 29. Exequaturs to be given to con-
suls, viii. 397.

Art. 30. Privileges of consuls, viii . 397. Art. 31. Deserters from vessels , viii. 397. Art. 32. A consular convention to be estab-

lished, viii . 397.

Art. 33. The treaty to be in force for twelve years. Offences of citizens not to affect the relations of the parties to this treaty. Proceedings on infractions of this treaty. Treaty not to operate contrary to the former treaties with other

powers. Ratifications to be exchanged in nine months, viii. 397, 398.

Breakwater, to be constructed in Delaware Bay, iv. 290.

Brearly, David, allowance to, v. 47.

Breck, Samuel, and Ross, claim of, to be settled

and paid, vi. 173. Breckenridge, Henry M., claim of, tó be settled
and paid, vi. 366. Breed Animals, to be free from duty, v. 561.

Ebenezer, duties to be repaid to, vi . 691 .

Bremen,

discriminating duties as to vessels of, iii. 510 ; iv. 2.
treaties with. See Hanseatic Republic, p . 20.

Brenneman, Henry, pension to, vi . 140.

Brent, Daniel, allowance to, for diplomatic services, vi. 901 .

Thomas L. L., credit allowed to , vi. 667 .

Brevard, Joseph, account of, to be settled, and loan certificate allowed to, vi. 134.
Brevet Rank, ii . 366 .

by consent of senate , ii . 785 ; iii. 427.

pay and emoluments, iii. 427 ; v. 352. in marine corps, iii. 124.
Brewer, George, land claim confirmed to, vi. 202.

ii. 401 .

allowed to enter certain land,

James, purchase money for land to be refunded to, vi . 797.
H., allowance to, for services, vi . 554.

Brewster, Caleb, pension allowed to, vi. 4 . Briant, Joseph, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 .

Bribery, ofjudges, i. 117. of officers of customs, i . 46, 175, 695 ; iii . 243.

of president and directors of United States Bank, iii. 509.
Brice, James, account of, to be settled , vi . 147 . Bruges,

at Brooklyn, ii . 13 ) .

Bridges, (continued . ) over the Potomac. See Potomac Bridge,
p. 140. at Harper's Ferry, vi . 848 . Bridget, James, pension to, vi. 112. Brig American, register allowed to, vi. 559. Liberator, register allowed to, vi. 371. William, register allowed to, vi. 313. Brigade Major, pay of, ii. 735. appointment of, i . 223, 483, 557 ; ii. 670,
801 .
Brigadier- Generals, number of, i. 222, 246, 483, 507, 604 ; ii. 133, 482, 670, 784 , 801 ; iii. 225, 615.
pay of, i . 223, 242, 431 , 484 , 750 ; ii . 133, 482, 671 .
rations and forage of. See those titles. aids of, i . 753 ; ii . 133, 482, 670, 801 ; iii .
115, 615.
waiters of, iii. 114.
Briggs, Edmund, bounty allowed to, vi. 58, 64. Isaac, accounts of, and suits against, vi.
209.
Jehosaphat, pension to, vi . 863. Dr. John P., pension to, vi . 699. Nathaniel, penalty remitted to, vi. 390.
Brinck, Aaron, pension to, vi . 92. Brio de Mar, Ship, insurers of, indemnified, iii.
502.
Brisban, James, duplicate land warrant to issue to, vi. 272.
Bristol, Lyman , pension to, vi. 803. " Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 76.
British Colonies, trade regulated and interdicted with, iii 432.
ports of U. S. closed against British vessels coming from, ii. 602, 603.
no merchandise to be imported therefrom ,
unless wholly of the growth of, &c ., iii. 602, 603. ports of U. S. to be open to British vessels directly from , iii. 740. president, on the adoption of certain measures by the British government, to open ports of the U. S. on reciprocal terms, iv . 419.
proclamations respecting trade with, vols. iii. and iv. Appendix.
See also Non-Intercourse, p. 124.
British Provinces, boundary of U. S. with. See Boundaries, p. 16.
Briton, Job, pension allowed to , vi. 23.
Britten, James, and another, payment to, vi. 271 . Britton, Jonathan, pension to, vi . 891 . Broadmeadow, Simeon, letters patent to be is-
sued to, vi. 370. Broadwell, Noah, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 155 .
Brobson, James, account of, and allowance to, vi. 671 .
Brockway, Benjamin , pension to, vi. 123. Brodie, Charles D. , allowance to, vi. 336.
Alexander O. , deduction of duties made to, vi. 525.
Bronough, Thomas, pension to, vi. 941. Bronson, Alvia, to be paid for a schooner cap-
tured, vi. 299 .
Brook, Lieutenant F. J., and others, to be paid for horses lost, vi. 466 George M , account of, to be settled, vi 2 :1

GENERAL INDEX .

19

Brooke, Edmund, five years' full pay as lieu- | Brown , John, allowance to, for improvements,

tenant allowed to, vi. 491 .

vi. 692.

" allowed to remove slaves, vi.

claim of, to be settled, vi. 770.

600 .

John G., payment to , iii. 502 .

George M., part of a judgment to be paid to, vi. 393.

R., allowed to enter certain lard, v. 715.

Brooks, Bartemus, rifle to be presented to, iv. 195 .

Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 83 -, Joseph C., payment to, iv. 649.

Christopher, allowance to, for services, vi. 514.

Josiah H., pension to, vi. 631 . Levi, pension to, vi. 578.

David, benefit of Stat. 1828 , c . 53, allowed to, vi. 445.
" allowance to, how to be computed, vi. 503.

Widow of General, allowance to, vi. 374.
Moses, allowance for damages to, vi. 146.

Martin, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi . 43. Nathaniel, allowance to , vi. 306. Thomas, pension allowed to, vi. 26. Lieutenant John,
medal to his representatives for his bravery

Noah, and others, to be paid for losses, vi. 670.
" Obadiah, pension allowed to, vi . 34. Return B., claims of, to be settled, vi.
768 .

on Lake Erie, iii. 141 . Broome, Thomas R. , account of, to be settled,

Samuel, letters patent to issue to, vi. 293.

and part of a judgment released to , vi . 328.

Thomas, and another, allowance to, for

Brotherton, Robert, released from a judgment,

flour, vi. 378.

vi. 306 .

Browne, William, payment to, v. 24.

Brothertown Indians,

Brownell, Thomas, pension to, vi. 869.

their land to be partitioned among them, Browning, David, authorized to relinquish and

v. 349.

enter land, vi . 643.

to be citizens of the U. S. , v. 351 . appropriation for division of lands of, vi.
813. treaty with, vii. 550.

Mesheck, allowance to, for horses lost, vi. 439.
Samuel, patent right extended to , vi. 467.

Broughton, Glover, and others, fishing bounty Brownlee, James, seven years' half-pay to be

allowed to, vi. 536.

paid to, vi. 533.

Broutin, Narcissus, land claim confirmed to, Brownson, Abraham, benefit of Stat . 1828, c.

vi. 202.

53, extended to, vi. 435.

Brown, Abiel, pension to, vi. 416..

Gideon, pension allowed to, vi . 25.

Adam, Representatives of, and others, to be paid for losses, vi. 670.

William, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Amos W., bounty land warrant to issue to, vi. 591 .
Charles, pension allowed to, vi . 445. land warrant to issue to heirs
of, vi. 794.
-, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 115.

Bruce, John, pension allowed to, vi . 179. " certificate to be settled and paid to,
vi. 540.
allowance to, for damages, vi . 588
Joseph, to be paid for a horse lost, vi 245.

-, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 100.

Bruce, William, final certificate of, to be re

Edwin C. and Maria, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 603.

ceived, and land patent to issue to, vi 169.

Frederick, account of, to be settled, vi. Bruff, James, pension to, vi. 74.

217.

Brune, Von Kapffe and, drawbacks allowed to ,

George, commissions allowed to sure-

vi. 357.

ties of, vi . 522.

Brunson, John, claim of, to be settled , vi. 518.

F., payment to be made to, iv. | Brush, Adelaide, to be paid for property de.

626 ; vi. 667.

stroyed, vi . 300.

Harvey, allowance to, vi. 525. Lieutenant Harvey, allowance to, vi. 551 .
Israel, drawback allowed to, vi. 390.

Elijah, executrix of, to be paid for property destroyed, vi . 300.
Robert, pension to, vi. 599, 629. Thomas, pension allowed to, vi. 25.

Major- General Jacob, claim of, to be Brussels, Joseph, payment to, ii. 120.

settled and paid, vi . 208.

Bryan, Joseph, and others, land claim confirmed

thanks to, for good con-

to, vi. 913.

duct in battles in Upper Canada, iii. 247. Jacob, land entries confirmed to, vi.
727.
James, Representatives of, allowance to, vi. 586.

Bryan and others, account of, to be settled, v. 435 .
Richard S., allowed to enter land, ii . 401 .
Bryant, John, pension to, vi. 505, 608 .

allowance to, for improvements, Bryce, Henry, penalties remitted to, vi. 122.

vi. 692.

Brydia, David, pension allowed to , vi. 25.

Jedediah, pension allowed to, vi. 25. Buck, Anthony, released from a bond, vi . 192.

? increase of pension to, vi. 93.

Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 76.

Jeptha, pension to, vi. 190

John, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 .

John, drawbacks allowed to, vi 30 " pension to, vi. 101 .

Buckingham, Jared, pension to, vi . 631 .

J

Buckley, Elijah, forfeiture relinquished a

allowance for damages to, vi. 146.

land patent to issue to, vi 339

20

GENERAL INDEX.

Buckley, Jeremiah, land claim confirmed to, | Buoys, &c., (continued .)

& c., vi. 520.

Beaufort, iv . 90.

Buckmaster, George, claim of, to be settled and

Bergen Point, v. 290.

paid, vi. 195 .

Beverly Harbor , ii . 611 , 612, 659, 828 ; iii.

Buckminster, Thomas, accounts of, to be set-

110, 316, 357.

tled, vi. 238.

Billop's Point Shoal, v. 290.

Buckner, Richard, and C. S. Jones, release to, vi. 247.

Bishop Rock, iv. 345. Black Rock Harbor, iv. 347 ; v. 642.

Budlong, Hannah, allowance of five years'

Bluff Shoal, iii . 698.

half- pay to, vi . 708.

Boon Island, i. 730 .

Buel, Isaac, pension allowed to, vi. 25.

Boss Rock, ii . 476.

increase of pension to, vi. 114.

Boston Harbor, i . 516 ; ii . 611 ; iii. 535 ; iv.

Samuel, to be discharged from prison , vi . 280.

345, 759. Bowbill Ledge, v. 289.

Buford, Thomas, payment for services to be

Brandford Harbor , iv. 172.

made to, vi. 409.

Brant Island Shoal, iii. 698.

to be paid for advances, vi . 616.

Bridgeport Harbor, ii. 406 ; iv. 230.

Buhler, John, land claim confirmed to, vi. 520.

Bristol Ferry, iv. 61.

Bulfinch, Charles, payment to, iv. 474.

Harbor, iii. 357.

Bulkley, Chauncey, letters patent to issue to widow of, vi. 371.

Brothers, iii. 644. Brunswick Harbor, v. 291.

Brunswick and Florida R. R. Company, right of

Buffalo Creek, iv. 175.

way granted to, v. 146.

Buffalo, iv. 230, 276, 381 , 648.

Bullion,

Bunker's Ledge, v. 289.

at mint, i . 249 ; v. 138.

Buzzard's Bay, ii. 57 ; iii. 535 ; iv. 62.

receipt to be given for, i. 341 ; v. 138. bullion of standard of U. S., may be pre-

Cape Elizabeth, ii. 659. Cape Fear Inlet, i. 607 ; iii. 110, 672.

ferred, i. 440.

Cape Fear River, i. 419.

expenses to be deducted from bullion, i.

Cape Hatteras, iii. 672.

440, 475 ; ii. 54 ; iii. 774 ; iv. 278.

Cape Lookout, iii. 672.

gold and silver to be separated at the ex-

Castine Harbor, iv. 759.

pense of party, iv. 278.

Castle Island, iv. 62.

bullion not intended for coinage may be

Cayahoga River, iv. 134.

assayed, iv. 278.

Charleston Harbor, i . 251 ; iii. 599 ; iv

deduction of one half per cent. iv. 700.

346, 512, 760.

bullion at mint, v. 138.

Chesapeake Bay, i. 251 , 339 ; iii. 535.

to be assayed, v. 139.

Chester, iv. 230.

charges to which depositor is subjected, v. 139.

Chickama-comico Channel, v. 291. Chincoteague Inlet, iv. 760.

payment for, when and how to be made, v.

Cochney's Island, iii. 535.

140, 141.

Cockspur Island, v. 169.

copper bullion to be bought, v. 141 .

Cohasset Rocks, iv. 345, 489.

account to be kept of transfers of, v. 139.
Bullitt, Benjamin, land claim confirmed to, vi. 523.

Collin's Ledge, iv. 230. Connecticut River, ii. 476. Conner's Hook Island, iv. 283.

Bunker, Zachariah, increase of pension to, vi . 312.

Constitution Point, iv. 283. Corner Stake, v. 290.

Bunnell, Cata, entitled to military bounty land, vi. 202.

Cornfield Point, iv. 62 ; v. 290. Craney Island Bar, iv. 172.

Buntin, Robert, allowance to, for surveying, vi . 262 .

Cutter Hunk Island , iii. 698. Damariscotta River, iv. 759.

Bunting, William B. , Heirs of, allowance to, vi. 738 .

Darien Harbor, ii. 476. Deek's Flats, ii. 476.

Buoys, Beacons, Columns, Monuments, Piers, and Spindles,

Deer Island Point, iv. 720. Delaware River, ii. 152, 321.

establishment and support of, i. 53, 137,

Dobay Bar, ii. 647 ; iii. 110.

251, 393, 426 ; and see Lighthouses,

Dog River Bar, iv. 173.

p. 102. Absseum Inlet, iv . 759.

Dorchester Flatts, iv. 171. Drummer's Ledge, v. 289.

Adams' Fall, iii. 599.

Dunkirk Harbor, iv. 228, 275, 363.

Allen's Ledge, iv. 759.

Dyer's Rock, iv. 345.

Rocks, iv. 289, 759 .

East Greenwich Harbor, iv. 172, 230.

Albemarle Sound, iv. 62.

Edgartown, ii . 659 ; iii . 110 , 357 ; iv. 282.

Altamaha River, iii. 644.

Erie Harbor, iv. 490.

Anisquam Harbor, iv. 345 .

Fairweather Island , ii . 414 ; iii. 534.

Annamusox River, iv . 759.

Federal Point, New Inlet, iv. 172.

Annapolis, iv. 490.

Frying-Pan Shoals , iii. 672.

Appalachicola Bay, iv. 491 , 760.

Fulcher's Point, iv. 134.

Auld's Rock, iv. 345.

George's River, iv. 720, 758.

Bantam Ledge , v. 289 .

Georgetown Harbor, iii . 316, 698 ; iv . 90,

Barnstable Harbor, ii . 828.

147, 172, 346, 490, 760.

Bass River, iv . 229, 343, 381 , 720 ; v. 289.

Gloucester Harbor , iv . 172, 345.

Beach Point, ii. 647 ; iii. 110.

Goat Island, i. 540.

GENERAL INDEX .

21

Buoys, &c , (continued .) Grand River, iv. 134. Grass Island, iv. 173. Great Beds, v. 290 . Great Brewster, ii. 611. Great Egg Harbor, ii. 476. Great Kill Shoals , v. 290. Gurnet Rock, ii. 476. Hadrell's Point, iii. 780.
Half-tide Ledge, v . 289. Half-way Rock, iii. 534 ; iv. 489. Harbor Island, iii . 698 ; iv. 490 . Haverstraw Bay, iv. 283. Hospital Island, iv. 489. Hudson River, iv. 345 , 512. Inn Reef, iv. 172. Ipswich, ii . 476. James's Ledge, iii. 644. James River, v. 290. Kennebeck Bay and River, iv. 62, 283. Kennebunk Harbor and River, iii. 599 ;
698 ; iv. 759. Kettle Bottoms, iv. 172. Key West, iv. 283. Killpond Bar, iv. 283. La Plaisance Bay, iv. 229, 363, 397. Little Egg Harbor, iv. 172. Little Mark Island, iv. 230. Long Island Sound , ii . 151 , 320, 321, 388 ;
iv. 62, 172, 490, 759. Long Shoal, iii. 698. Lookout, iv. 282. Lower Cedar Point, iv. 172. Lynn Harbor, iv. 759. Marcus Hook, iv. 347. Marsh's Shoal , iii. 698.
Martin's Industry, iv. 346. Mattapungo Inlet, iv. 760. Maumee Bay, iv. 760. Miami, iv. 760. Middle Shoal, iv. 171. Middle Ground Shoal, iii . 698. Milford Harbor, v. 290. Mill River Harbor, iv. 134. Minot's Ledge, iv. 345, 489, 759. Mispillion Creek, iv. 490. Mississippi River, iii. 535 , iv. 173, 343. Mobile Bay, iv. 231 , 491 , 760 . Mobile Point, iv. 173. Mt. Desert, v. 289. Mystic River, v. 290. Nanjemoy Reach, iv. 172. Nanticoke River, iv. 759. Nantucket, i . 540 ; ii . 476 ; iv. 759. Narragansett Bay, ii. 125. Neenah River, v. 330.
Newark Bay, v. 290. New Bedford, iv. 759. Newburyport, iii. 316. Newcastle, iv. 176, 349. New Inlet, i. 607 ; ii. 659 ; iii. 110, 357 ;
iv. 343, 346. New Haven Harbor, iii . 110 ; iv. 489. New London, i. 353. Newport Harbor, iv. 345. New York Harbor, ii. 435. Nixe's Mate , iv. 720. Norwalk Island, iii . 535. Norwalk Harbor, iv. 228. Ocracoke Inlet, i . 339, 535 ; iii. 672 ; iv .
134, 231.
Old Gay Rock, iii . 644. Old Orchard Shoal , v . 290.

Buoys, &c., (continued .) Onancock Creek, v. 291. Oswego Harbor, iv. 228, 275, 363, 648 ; v. 188.
Pamptico Point, iv. 282, 283. Pamptico Sound , ii . 406 ; iv. 231, 347 Pass Christian, iv. 348.
Pass Marianne, iv. 348. Passamaquoddy Bay, iv. 758. Patapsco River, iii . 535 . Paucatuck River, v. 289. Pawtuxet, iv. 282. Pea Patch, iv. 283, 346. Penobscot River, v. 289. Pensacola, iv. 134. Pine Point Shoal, iii. 698. Plymouth, ii. 476. Pocomoke River, iv. 759. Point of Marsh Shoals, iii . 698. Point Gammon, iv. 230. Pool's Island, iv. 283 ; v. 290. Portland Harbor, i. 553 ; iv. 759 ; v. 289. Portsmouth Harbor, i. 353 ; iii. 644 ; iv
345 . Port Tobacco Shoals, iv. 172. Port Clinton, iv. 760. Potomac River, iv. 490. Providence, i. 353 ; v. 289. Prudence Island, iv. 345. Punham Rock, iv. 282. Roanoke Marshes, iv. 282. Rose Island, iv. 345. Round Shoals, iv. 172. Sackett's Harbor, iv. 489. Saco Harbor, iv. 229. Saco River, iv. 62.
Salem Harbor, ii. 414 , 415, 466, 524 ; iii . 599 ; v. 289.
Sand Island, iv . 173, 283, 284.
Sandusky Bay, iv. 346, 760. Sandy Hook, i. 540 ; ii . 294 ; iii. 357 ; iv
172.
Saybrook Bar, iv. 489. Savannah, i. 353, 607 ; ii. 320 , 561 , 828
iii. 316 ; iv. 490. Scuppernong River, iv. 62, 90. Seguin Island, i. 368. Shallote River, v . 291 . Shears, iii. 699. Shell Castle Island, i. 368 ; ii. 65. Shippan Reef, iv. 230. Shoals, Isle of, iii . 644. Sister Island, v. 291 . Smith's Ledge, iv. 230. Sodus Bay, iv. 720, 768. South West Ledge, iii. 599. Spindle Rock, iv. 284, 345. Spit Sand, iv. 345. Stage Island, iv. 134. St. Andrew's Inlet, v. 291. St. Augustine Harbor, iv. 231 , 253, 491. St. George River, iv. 758. St. John's River, iv. 283 ; v. 291 . St. Mark's Harbor, iv . 231 , 253, 491 , 760. St. Simon's Bar, ii. 271 , 561 . Steels' Ledge, iv. 175 ; v. 188. Stonington Harbor, iv. 289. Sunken Rocks, iii . 644. Swampscut, iv . 345, 489. Swan Island Shoal , iii. 698.
Tangier Sound, iv. 759. Teche River, iv. 233. Thimble Island Reef, iv. 172.

22

GENERAL INDEX .

Buoys, & c., (continued. ) Toddy Rock, iv. 345. Tuckanuck, ii. 476. Turner's Reef, iv. 489 . Van Wee's Point, iv. 283.
Vineyard Sound , iv. 230, 252, 345, 489. Warren River, i. 353. Well's Harbor, iv. 62.

Burr, Ephraim Willard, and another, duties to be refunded to, vi. 880. " Gilbert, pension allowed to, vi. 25. Nathan, pension allowed to, vi. 25.
Burris, William, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 453. authorized to relinquish lands, vi. 579.

West Island Ledge, iii. 535. Whale Rock, iv. 489. Wickford Harbor, iv. 489. Wicomico River, iv. 759.

Burritt, William, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 68.
Burrows, William, increase of pension to, vi. 85.

Winyaw Bay, ii . 414, 561 ; iii. 316. Winnebago Lake, v. 330. Wolf Island, iii. 535.
York Ledge, v. 289. Burcle, Christian J., drawback allowed to, vi.
333.

" Lieutenant William, medal for action with the Boxer, iii. 141. Burt, Peter, letters patent to issue to, vi. 330. Burton, John, and others, moiety of a forfeiture to be refunded to, vi . 415.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 82.

Burdick, Walter, increase of pension to, vi. Bush, Daniel B., authorized to relinquish land,

84.

vi. 850.

" William C., allowance to, vi . 170.

John, claims for seven years ' half- pay of,

Burdin, Henry, letters patent to issue to, vi. 250.
Burdsall, Burnett, arrears of pension, vi. 836.

to be adjusted, vi. 6. Philip, land claim confirmed to adminis-
trators of, vi. 540.

Burdwin, Samuel, increase of pension to, vi.

Lieutenant, medal for bravery, ii. 830.

83.

Bussell, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 83.

Bureaus in the Navy, establishment and regula- Butcher, Sebastian, Bartholomew, and Michael,

tion of, v. 579.

land title confirmed to, vi . 859.

Burgess, Edward, to be paid for expenses, vi . 706 .
Burgin, John, to be discharged from prison, vi. 285 .
Burial- Ground, congressional, iv. 520, 580, 581.

Butler, Jacob, allowance to, for horses, vi. 359. Paul D., claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi . 172.
, Samuel, allowance to, for a wagon, &c., vi. 619.

Burk, Anthony, authorized to enter land with- Butman, Richard, duty to be refunded to, vi.

out payment, ii. 712 ; vi. 237.

616 .

Burke, William, pension to, vi . 100 . Burkham, Charles, and others, allowance to , vi.
565.
Burland, Thomas M., land purchase confirmed to, vi. 776.
Burlingame, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 566.

Butterfield, Kindall and, claim of, to be settled, vi. 365.
Butts, James R., exempted from duties, vi. 739.
Buxton, James, pension to, vi. 91. Buying stolen Goods, &c . , i . 116 ; iv. 117.

Burlington, (Wisconsin,) to be laid out in lots, &c., v. 70.

Byers, John, to be allowed for depreciation of notes, vi. 289.

proceeds of land sales in, to be paid to, v. | Byington, Abraham, part of a judgment remit-

178 .

ted to, vi. 201.

Burnet, Daniel, titles of, to land, to be examined and moneys refunded to, vi. 205.

Joel, allowance to, for damages, vi. 403, 568.

Elisha, authorized to locate land, vi .

869.

C.

Burnett, Charles A., to be paid for work, vi.

400.

Cadets, ii. 720. See West Point, p. 178.

Burnham, Isaac, pension to, vi . 75.

Caddo Indians, treaty with, of July 1, 1835,

James, to be paid for expenses, vi .

vii. 470.

149 .

Cadwell, Peter, and James Britten, compensa-

Jeremiah, pension to, vi . 233.

tion allowed to , vi. 271.

John, reimbursement of, for his ran- Cahaba Navigation Company,

som, vi . 103, 412. allowance to, vi . 493.
Oliver, pension to, vi. 25.
Burning, of public ships, how punished, iv. 117. of private ships, ii . 290. of arsenals, shiphouses, warehouses, lighthouses, & c., punished, iv. 115. malicious generally, iv . 115. of public property by persons in the navy, i. 713 ; ii. 48.
Burns, Malachi, land patent to issue to, vi . 321 . -, Otway, claim against, for duties, to be

assent of congress to act of incorporation, iv. 308.
act of incorporation , iv. 811. Cahokia Indians, treaty with, of September 25,
1818, vii . 181. Village, proceedings of inhabitants of,
confirmed, and their agents authorized to convey lots in Illinois City, vi. 242. Cahoone, John, and Crew, release of claim of United States to, vi. 134.
Cain, Richard, and another, land patent to issue to, vi. 327.
Caldwell, Alexander, released from a bond, vi. 926 .

settled, vi. 352. Burnside, Robert, a forfeiture refunded to, vi.
187.

Bratton, set-off allowed to, vi . 148. David, account of, to be settled, vi 664 .

GENERAL INDEX .

23

Caldwell, Harry, penalty for importing slaves, | Canadian Volunteers, (continued . )

the assignees of warrants issued to Cana-

remitted to, vi. 87. Joseph F., claim of, to be settled, vi.

dian volunteers, authorized to locate

861 . Lieutenant James R. , resolution re-
specting, ii . 347. Calef, John, Representatives of, to be compen-
sated for property destroyed, vi . 150. Calhoon, Chauncey, claim of, to be settled, vi .

them , iii . 641 . Canals,
for reservations of townships for, in the new states. See Lands, Public, p . 96.
in the District of Columbia. See that title ,
p. 51.

775. Calhoun, Benjamin , pension to, vi . 527.
Chauncey, payment to, vi . 835. James S., to be paid for use of steam-
boat, & c., vi . 906. " John, pension to , vi . 102. Violet, pension to, vi . 909.
Califfe, Stephen, pension to, vi . 3. California, purchase of Greenhow's History of,
v. 722. Callan, James, to be paid for services, vi. 712.
-, Patrick, account of, to be settled, vi.
232. Calliot, John B. , land patent to issue to , vi. 498. Calvert County, levy court-house to be paid for,
vi. 711 . Calvin, James, authorized to release and enter
land, vi. 629. " pension to, vi. 631.
Calypso, Barque, register for, to issue , vi . 733. Camanche Indians, treaty with, of August 24,
1835, vii. 475. See Comanche. Cameron, Alexander, pension allowed to, vi. 57. Camp, John G., accounts of, to be settled, vi .
157. Campau, Joseph, land patent to issue to, vi.
913, 930. Campbell, Charles, judgment against, to be sus-
pended , vi . 268. David S., allowance to, for a gun
lost, vi . 624. Duncan, pension allowed to, vi. 26.

surveys for, iv. 22, 139 , 151 , 427. Wabash and Erie Canal, iv. 47, 236, 306,
416, 716 ; v. 414, 542, 731. note of acts respecting, iv. 662. to connect Illinois River with Lake Mich-
igan, iii . 659 ; iv. 234, 662 ; v. 542.
Miami Canal, iv. 47, 305, 329, 371 , 393, 619, 662.
authority given to cut canals through the
public lands, iii . 659 ; iv. 47, 153, 474. from the Atlantic to the Gulf of Mexico,
iv. 139, 427. subscription for stock in . See the titles of
the respective canals . a survey authorized to ascertain the prac-
ticability of canal routes between the waters of St. Andrew's Bay and the River and Bay of Chattahoochie ; and between Pensacola Bay and Bon Secour, along the northern coast of the Gulf of
Mexico, iv. 560 . Canoes, importations in, regulated, iii. 616. Canfield, Ithamar, grant of land to , vi . 41 .
Cannon, Joseph S., pension to, vi. 469 . Joshua, land patent to issue to , vi.
278. Canter, James, to be paid for service in militia,
vi. 878.
Capias ad satisfaciendum , when issuable , i. 94 , 276. in what districts to run , i. 515. in District of Columbia, ii . 194, 422.

James, pension allowed to, vi. 24,
25. increase of pension to, vi. 76,
233 . Executors of, pension to be
paid to, vi. 365. 9 John, Heirs of, land patent to issue
to, vi. 841. claim of, to be settled, vi. 541 .

Capitol, appropriations for, i . 130 ; ii . 236, 311 , 399, 432, 499, 537, 552, 607, 775, 822 ; iii . 48 , 205, 389, 458, 516, 541 , 562, 601 , 635,
674, 762, 784 ; iv. 60 , 194 , 218, 266, 362, 474, 518, 580, 627, 649, 722, 770 ; v . 114, 172, 173, 222, 267, 347, 348, 378, 532,
644, 681 , 757 ; vi . 815. architect of, iv. 266, 363 ; v . 525.

9P., credit to be allowed to, vi.

salary of gardener, v. 532.

844 .

paintings for, iii . 400 ; v. 133, 173, 223.

James, and H. C. , authorized to

longitude of, to be ascertained, iii. 648,

relinquish land, & c . , vi . 810 . -- , Polly L. , credits to be allowed to, vi.
285. Lieutenant-Colonel Richard, Heirs of,
allowance to, vi. 729. Thomas, pension to, vi . 6.

673. regulations of the city of Washington ex-
tended to, iv . 266, 723. Caplinger, Adam, allowance to, for services, vi.
544. Capron, Elisha, pension to , vi . 100.

Campeau, Rene, land claim of, confirmed, ii. 800. Campin, Jumes, pension to, vi. 101 . Canada, Nathaniel, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 669. Refugees from, grant of land to , vi. 42,
363, 570. Canadian Volunteers,
bounties to, iii . 256, 301 , 394, 641 . bounties in land and extra pay given to
certain Canadian volunteers, iii. 256, 393. the paymaster of the army to pay the further allowance to the Canadian volun-

Captures, in case of French depredations, i. 523, 561 , 572, 574, 578 ; iii. 4. papers found, to be preserved , i . 711 ; ii . 46.
See also Prize Causes, p. 141 . Caramalli, Hamet, appropriation for the tempo-
rary relief of, vi. 62. Carby, Thaddeus, land warrant to issue to
mother of, vi. 278.
Cardiffe, John, pension to, vi . 26. Cardinal, Francois, land claim of, confirmned,
ii. 800. Cardozo, J. N., deductions to be made from

teers, iii. 301 .

debt of, vi. 459 .

24

GENERAL INDEX.

Carey, Elnathan, and others, purchase money to | Carter, Randolph, pension to, vi. 866.

be refunded to, vi. 765.

" Reuben, pension to, vi . 417.

Carera, M. de la, land grant confirmed to, vi. 673.

-, Stephen, pension to, vi. 111 . Dr. Thomas, allowance to heirs of, vi.

Carhart, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 92.

716. William, pension to , vi. 190.

Carle, Francis, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

five years' full pay as surgeon allowed to, vi. 490 .

Carleton, Ebenezer, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Carver, Nathaniel, fishing bounty allowed to,

increase of pension to, vi.

vi. 291 .

114.

Cary, Christopher, pension to, vi. 417.

Carlton, John, pension to, vi . 417.

Case, Judah, allowance to, vi . 884.

Carmichael, John, pension to, vi. 82. F., claims of, to land to be

-, Loudon, to be paid for oxen impressed, vi. 291 .

examined, vi. 394.

Solomon, pension to, vi. 608.

" land claim confirmed and Casey, Robert, pension to, vi. 725.

land granted to, vi. 449.

Caslard, Peter, claim of, to be settled and paid,

William, to pay extraordinary ex-

vi. 188.

penses of, vi . 31.

Cassanova, Gabriel, land claim confirmed to,

-, appropriation to pay, vi.

Widow , vi. 499.

34 .

9 Juan,

Carmick, Major Daniel, thanks of congress to, Cassedy, Charles, to be paid for services, vi.

iii. 249.

472.

Carmouche, Narcisse, land claim not confirmed Cassel, Michael, authorized to exchange land,

to, vi. 683.

vi. 710.

Carnes and Duval, to be paid for losses, vi. Cassidey, James, and another, register for a

466.

barque to issue to , vi. 733.

Carondelet Canal, to be extended to the Mississippi River, ii. 517.
Carpenter, Isaac, pension to, vi. 364. Jesse, purchase money to be refunded
to, vi. 833. Thomas, duties remitted to, vi . 14.
Carpentier, Joseph le, debentures allowed to, vi. 367.
" Lewis Anthony, grant of land to, vi. 35.
Carr, Charles, credits to be allowed to, and judgment against, suspended, vi. 289. Elijah, authorized to exchange lands , vi. 402.
Richard, land warrant granted to widow of, vi. 535.

Cassin, Mary, claim for advances to be paid to, vi. 238.
Lieutenant Stephen, medal to be given to him, iii. 246.
Casson, Philip, pension allowed to, vi. 33. Castille, John, to be discharged from prison , vi.
145 .
Castinado, John de, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 193.
Casting away Ships fraudulently, how punished, ii. 290.
Cathcart, James Leander, claim of, to be allowed, vi. 250. " allowance to, vi. 278. allowance to, in full of all claims, vi. 668.

Robinson, and Company, to be paid for ex- Catlett, Charles I., claim of, to be settled, vi.

penses, vi. 791.

673.

Sarah, land warrant granted to, vi. 535. Thomas, and others, authorized to enter lands , vi. 313.
-, William, pension to, vi. 82. Carriages,
importations in, from adjacent territories, iii. 616.

Dr. Hanson, Representatives of, to be paid for advances, vi. 476. Catner, Philip, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 766.
Caton, Richard, exempted from imprisonment for debt of United States , vi . 50.
Cator, Joseph, payment to, vi . 185.

duties (internal) on , i. 373, 478 ; ii. 102 ; Cattle and Beasts, importation of, regulated, i.

iii. 40, 108.

324, 699.

Carrier, Hannah, pension to , vi . 874. Jonathan D., pension to, vi . 189.
Carroll, Daniel, allowance to, vi. 306. " Charles, franking privilege of, iv. 320. William T., to be paid for services, vi.
464.
Cars, Robert, pension to, vi. 24. Carswell, David, pension to, vi. 417. Carter, Braxton , pension to, vi. 123.
Farish, to be paid for salt, vi. 547. authorized to enter land, vi.
763.
Isaac, pension to , vi . 631. John, authorized to bring a slave to District of Columbia, vi . 820.
D., payment to be made to, vi. 248.
K., to be credited with deprecia. tion of nutes, vi . 311 .

Caulfield, James, authorized to enter land, vi. 640.
Cavalier, Anthony, and P. Petit, land title confirmed, vi . 238.
Cavenough, John, increase of pension to, vi 69.
Cazeau, Francis, claim of, to be paid, v: 191 . , payment to be made t > repre.
sentatives of, vi. 915. P. Francis, grant of land to, vi 43. --, grant of land to, ii. 101 .
Census, 1st, i. 101 , 129, 197 , 226. 2d, ii. 11 , 37. 3d, ii. 564, 570, 605, 658 4th, iii. 548, 643. 5th, iv. 383, 439, 514. 6th, v. 331 , 368, 411 , 452, 567, 568, 583. distribution of returns, iii . 719 , iv. 606,

GENERAL INDEX .

25

Census, (continued.) 608, 744 ; v. 467, 583, 648. to be taken once in every ten years, i. 10. apportionment of representatives under.
See Apportionment, p. 5. aggregate returns prior to 1830 to be ob-
tained, iv. 430. note of acts, i. 101 . Central Bank of Georgetown and Washington, iii. 387, 570, 619.
Centre College, (Kentucky,) lands to be transferred to, vi. 896.
Centre ofAmerica, Federation ofthe, General Convention of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation with, December 5, 1825, viii. 322. Article 1. Peace and friendship established, viii. 322.
Art. 2. Parties agree not to grant any peculiar favor to other nations in respect to

Centre of America, &c . , (continued . ) Art. 22. Further agreement as to exami nation of vessels, viii. 332. Art. 23. Prize causes, viii . 332. Art. 24. War, viii. 334.
Art. 25. Agreement, in case of war between the two nations, as to the removal of property and citizens, & c. , viii . 334.
Art. 26. Debts not to be sequestered in case of war, viii. 334.
Art. 27. Official intercourse, viii. 334. Art. 28. Consuls and vice- consuls, viii.
334.
Art. 29. Privileges of consuls, viii . 336. Art. 30. Persons attached to the service
of consuls, viii. 336. Art. 31. Power of consuls respecting de-
serters, viii. 336. Art. 32. Commerce and navigation, viii.
336 .

commerce, &c., viii. 322. Art. 3. The citizens of each may frequent
all the coasts, & c. , of the other, viii. 322. Art. 4. Further agreement with regard to
the produce of each other, viii. 324. Art. 5. Regulation of duties, viii. 324. Art. 6. Further agreement as to mutual
commerce, viii. 324. Art. 7. Citizens of neither party to be lia-
ble to any embargo, viii. 324. Art. 8. Protection in case of distress or
shipwreck, viii. 326. Art. 9. Ships of either nation captured by
pirates to be delivered up to the owners, viii. 326.

Art. 33. Present treaty to remain in force twelve years, & c. Infringement of the treaty. No reprisals of breach of treaty except after complaints of injuries, &c. Treaty not to be construed to operate contrary to former public treaties with other sovereigns or states. Approval and ratification ofthe treaty, viii. 336, 338.
Certificate, of reasonable cause of seizure, i . 696 ; ii. 422 ; iii. 199, 234. note of decisions, ii. 422. of military service, loss of, provided for, iii. 317.
loan office, iii. 425, 696 ; iv. 602.

Art. 10. Assistance to be given to each other in cases of wreck, viii . 326.
Art. 11. Citizens of either party may dispose of their personal goods within either of the states, by sale or will, &c., viii. 326.
Art. 12. Protection to the persons and
property of the citizens of each country, viii. 326.
Art. 13. Security of conscience to be enjoyed by the citizens of both countries, viii. 328.
Art. 14. Citizens of both countries to sail with their ships with all manner of lib-

Certiorari, to district court in case of disability of judge, ii. 534. writ of, ii. 89, 132.
Cessions of Jurisdiction, reservations in, i. 426.
process where there is no reservation, i 426.
president authorized to procure, v. 64. required previous to purchase of sites, v.
468. over navy-yard near Philadelphia, iv. 245. Chacherie, Lewis, to be paid for services, vi. 118 .

erty and security . Free ships to make Chadburn, Levi, increase of pension to, vi. 114.

free goods, viii. 328.

Chadwick, Caleb, pension to, vi . 24.

Art. 15. Neutral property found on board

Levi, bounty land warrant to issue

of enemy's vessels to be considered as

to, vi. 753.

enemy's property. The flag of the neutral does not protect enemy's property, viii. 328.
Art. 16. Liberty of navigation and commerce to extend to all kinds of merchan-

Challenge, or Conaleskee, lands relinquished to, vi. 441 .
Challenges, in army, ii. 363. of members of courts-martial, ii . 368. See

dise except certain articles contraband , viii. 330. Art. 17. All other merchandise not com-

Courts-Martial, p . 42. to jurors, i. 88, 119. in District of Columbia, v. 318.

prehended in the articles enumerated to Challer, Henry, increase of pension to, vi . 739.

be free, viii . 330 .

Chalmers, John, allowance to, for cordage, vi.

Art. 18. Articles of contraband to be sub-

145 .

ject to detention and confiscation, viii . 330.
Art. 19. Agreements in case of blockade , viii. 330.
Art. 20. Regulation of visits at sea, viii. 332.
Art. 21. Course to be pursued to avoid vexation in the examination of papers, viii. 332.

Chamberlain, Joseph, arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 505. -, pension to, vi . 578.
Champaigne, Margaret G. C., grant of land to, vi. 35.
Champe, Phebe, pension to , vi . 736. Champenois, William, pension allowed to, vi . 26 Champlin , Samuel, sureties of, discharged, vi
883 .

VOL. VIII.

4

26

GENERAL INDEX.

Chandler, Joel, authorized to exchange lands, | Cheears, Dr. James H., Representatives of, al-

vi. 722.

lowance to, vi . 793 .

2 John, allowance to, vi . 598.

Cheever, Nathaniel, and others, moneys to be

Joseph R., and others, credits to be

refunded to, vi. 456.

entered on judgments against, vi . 893 .

" William D., claim of, for loss on treas-

Walter Story, final certificates to be

ury notes to be paid , vi. 875.

paid to, vi. 326.

Cheney, Beley, land claim confirmed to, vi.

Channing, Walter, duties to be repaid to, vi. 240.

246.

Chapin, Luther, allowance for services, vi. 334. allowance to, for a vessel cap-

9 land certificate to issue to, vi. 727.

tured, vi . 414 . Chaplains inthe Army,

Cherokee County, (Alabama, ) grant of land to, v. 254.

number and appointment of, i. 222, 604 ; | Cherokee Indians,

ii. 483, 674, 796 ; iii. 297.

certain lands, and certain improvements on

pay of, i. 223, 242 ; ii . 483 , 674 , 796 ; iii. 297.

lands, secured to Percis Lovely by the treaty with the Cherokee Indians of

at West Point, iii. 426.

1817, to be paid for, iv. 491 .

at military posts, v. 259, 308. in militia, iii. 135. penalty for absence of, ii. 361 ,

the certificates issued or allowed by the commissioners under the Cherokee treaty of 1836, to be paid, v. 719.

Chaplains of Congress, compensation of, i . 71 , 449 ; iii. 334.

appropriations for removal of, v. 242. treaty with the Cherokees, November 28,

Chaplin, Joseph, pension to, vi . 417.

1785, vii. 18.

Chapman, Albert, pension to, vi. 73. Barnabas, pension to, vi. 24.

treaty with the Cherokees, July 2, 1791 , vii. 39.

Christian, to be compensated for property destroyed , vi. 150 .

additional article to the treaty with the Cherokees, of July 2, 1791 , February 17,

Erasmus, payment for services of, to be made, vi . 431.
Jeremiah, allowance to, vi . 170. John G., payment to, v. 173. Jonathan, debentures allowed to, vi . 426 .

1792, vii. 42. treaty with the Cherokees, June 26, 1794,
vii. 43. treaty with the Cherokees, October 2,
1798, vii. 62. treaty with the Cherokees, October 25,

Chappell, Amazian, increase of pension to, vi. 124.
John, pension allowed to, vi. 25 . Russell, pension allowed to, vi. 26. Chapu, Michael, pension allowed to, vi. 177. Charbono, Tousaint, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 66.

1805 , vii. 93. treaty with the Cherokees, October 27,
1805, vii. 95 . convention with the Cherokees, January
7, 1806, vii . 101 . elucidation of the convention with the
Cherokees of January 7, 1806, Septem-

Chargé des Affaires, compensation of, ii. 78, 608. appointment of, ii . 609.

ber 11 , 1807, vii. 103.
treaty with the Cherokees, March 22, 1816, vii. 138 .

Charleston City, allowance to indemnify, vi. 419.

convention with the Cherokees , March 22, 1816, vii. 139.

Charts, depot for, v. 576. distribution of, v. 660.
Chase, David, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 606. -, Daniel, pension to, vi. 840. Enoch, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

treaty with the Cherokees, September 14, 1816, vii. 148.
treaty with the Cherokees, July 8, 1817, vii. 156.
treaty with the Cherokees, February 27, 1819, vii. 195.
treaty with the Cherokees, October 24, 1804, vii . 228.

9 Joseph, and others, exonerated from a penalty , vi. 73.

convention with the Cherokees , May 6, 1828, vii. 311.

Joshua T., and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 372. -, Parker, pension to, vi. 666.
Paul, discharged from claim for duties, vi. 336 .
Richard, pension to, vi. 24. Samuel, witnesses at the trial of, to be

articles of agreement with the Cherokees, February 14, 1833, vii . 414.
treaty with the Cherokees, December 29, 1835, vii. 478.
supplementary articles to a treaty with the Cherokees of December 29, 1835 , March 1, 1836, vii. 488.

paid, vi 61 .

Cherokee Preemptions ; all the Cherokee pre-

, expenses of impeachment of, to

emptions which have been located on any

be paid, ii. 273, 389, 456 ; vi . 70. Chastelain and Ponvert, duties to be deducted

of the surveyed lands of the United States, south of the Arkansas River, confirmed,

from bond of, vi . 813.

and patents to issue for them, v. 603

Chasting, Joseph, land claim confirmed to , vi. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company,

202 .

secretary of the treasury to vote for the

Chauncey, Wolcott, claim of, to be settled and allowed, vi. 580.
Chayenne Indians, treaty of July 6, 1825 , with, vii. 255.

president and directors of the company, iv . 124. a subscription of fifteen hundred shares authorized, iv. 124, 350.

GENERAL INDEX .

27

Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, charter of, iv. 101 , 202, 602, 793 ; v. 197, 722, 802. subscription to stock in , iv. 233, 294. debt of certain cities for stock in, assumed by United States, v. 31.
Chesapeake, Frigate, rebuilding of, ii. 699, 776. Chesnut, Samuel, to be paid for a horse lost, vi .
400.
Chester, John, allowance to, vi. 66.
Simeon, Heirs of, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.
Chever, Mary, pension allowed to , vi. 134. Chew , Beverly, and others, proceeds of seizure
to be paid to, vi. 464. William W., appropriation for, v. 431 .
Chiapella, Celestin , land claim confirmed to, vi. 489 .
Chickasaw Indians,
treaty with the Chickasaws, January 10 , 1786, vii. 24.
treaty with the Chickasaws, October 24, 1801 , vii. 65 .
treaty with the Chickasaws, July 23, 1805, vii. 89.
treaty with the Chickasaws, September 20, 1816, vii. 150.
treaty with the Chickasaws, October 19, 1818, vii. 192.
treaty with the Chickasaws, October 20, 1832, vii. 381.
articles supplementary to, and explanatory of, the treaty with the Chickasaws of October 20, 1832, October 22, 1832, vii. 388 .
convention with the Chickasaws, May 24, 1834, vii. 450.
Childers, Edwin H. See John P. Hickman, vi. 848 .
Nathaniel, allowance to, vi . 443. Children, of naturalized persons. See Natural-
ization, p. 119. Chile,
General Convention of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation with, May 16, 1832, viii. 434.
Article 1. Peace and friendship established, viii . 434.
Art. 2. Favors granted to other nations shall become common to both . Exceptions, viii. 434.
Art. 3. Commerce and navigation. Coasting trade excepted, viii . 434.
Art. 4. Merchants and others free to manage their business, viii. 435.
Art. 5. Indemnification for embargo or detention, viii. 435.
Art. 6. Assistance to be secured to vessels
in the rivers, ports, & c . , from pirates and enemies, or in case of distress, viii . 435. Art. 7. Vessels captured by pirates to be restored, viii. 435.
Art. 8. Protection to vessels, &c . , shipwrecked, viii. 435.
Art. 9. Personal and real estate may be disposed of and taken by succession, & c. , viii. 435.
Art. 10. Protection to residents in either
country, viii. 436 .
Art. 11. Liberty of conscience, viii. 436. Art. 12. Free ships make free goods, viii.
436 .
Art. 13. Neutral property in enemy's ships

Chile, (continued . ) liable to condemnation , with exceptions, viii. 437.
Art. 14. Contraband articles, viii . 437. Art. 15. All articles not enumerated in ar-
ticle 14 to be free, except to blockaded ports, viii. 437. Art. 16. Contraband articles not to con-
demn those not contraband, viii . 437. Art. 17. Blockade, viii. 437.
Art. 18. Regulation of visits at sea, viii. 438. Art. 19. Sea letters or passports to vessels
in case of war, viii. 438. Art. 20. Vessels under convoy, viii. 438. Art. 21. Prize courts, viii . 439. Art. 22. No citizen of either party to enter
the service of an enemy of the other, viii. 439. Art. 23. In case of war between the parties, six months to be allowed to persons re-
siding on the coast, and one year to persons in the interior, to dispose of their property and remove, viii. 439. Art. 24. Private and public debts shall not be sequestrated or confiscated in case of war, viii. 439.
Art. 25. Public agents on the footing of those ofthe most favored nations, viii . 139.
Art. 26. Consuls , viii. 439. Art. 27. Consuls must exhibit their com-
missions, viii. 440 .
Art. 28. Immunities of consuls, &c. , viii. 440.
Art. 29. Consuls may require the aid of the civil authorities to arrest deserters. Deserters must be sent back within two
months, viii. 440. Art. 30. A consular convention to be
formed, viii. 440. Art. 31. The treaty to be in force for
twelve years. Individuals to be responsible for infringements. Manner of proceeding in case of infringement. Existing treaties not to be affected by this treaty. This treaty to be ratified in nine months, viii. 441 .
An Additional Explanatory Convention to the Treaty between the United States and
the Republic of Chile, September 1 , 1833, viii . 456. The treaty of May 16, 1832, to be carried into effect, notwithstanding the ratifications were not exchanged in the time limited, viii. 456.
Article 1. Stipulations of the 2d article , how to be understood, viii . 456.
Art. 2. Explanation of article 10, viii. 457. Art. 3. " Deserters" not to include slaves,
viii. 457.
Art. 4. Ratifications to be exchanged within eight months, viii. 457.
Chiles, Thomas, pension allowed to, vi . 26. Chillicothe Bank, allowance to, for interest and
advances, vi . 414.
Chilton, John, Heirs of, allowance to, vi. 731. China,
Treaty with China, July 3, 1844, viii. 592. Article 1. Peace and amity established be-
tween the United States and China, viii. 592.
Art. 2. Citizens ofthe United States trading with China to pay the duties prescribed in the tariff. Fees and charges wholly

28

GENERAL INDEX .

China, (continued .) abolished. Modification of the tariff, how to be made . Additional advantages, if hereafter granted or extended to any
other nation, to be enjoyed by the United States, viii. 592. Art. 3. Ports which may be frequented by citizens of the United States who may reside there. Vessels of the United
States not to trade at any other port.

China, (continued. ) to be prevented by military force, and rioters punished, viii. 596.
Art. 20. Reexportation of goods imported into China by citizens of the United States to other permitted ports. Frauds on the government of China, viii. 596.
Art. 21. Criminal acts by subjects of China to be punished by the Chinese. Citizens of the United States committing crimes

Penalty, viii. 592. Art. 4. United States may appoint consuls .
Protection of consuls and other officers of the United States, viii. 592, 593.

to be punished by the consul according to the laws of the United States, viii . 596. Art. 22. If China should be at war with
any foreign nation , the trade of the Unit-

Art. 5. Privilege of trade at the ports

ed States to the five ports not to be mo-

named, given to citizens of the United States, viii. 593.
Art. 6. Papers of vessels of the United States to be left with the consul. Ton-
nage duties to be paid in full of all for-

lested. Transportation of goods to and from the ports of the belligerents to be allowed, & c. Proviso, viii. 597. Art. 23. Consuls of United States to make returns of the trade of the United States

mer rates and charges. No additional tonnage duties to be paid on vessels going from one port to another, viii. 593. Art. 7. No tonnage duties to be laid on boats belonging to citizens of the United States. Duty on cargo-boats, viii. 593. Art. 8. Citizens of United States may en-
gage pilots, and may hire servants, viii. 593.

with the five ports, viii. 597. Art. 24. Communications with the local
officers of China, how to be made . Communications from subjects of China, how to be made. Settlement of controver
sies, viii. 597. Art. 25. Questions between citizens of
United States and China, how to be reg. ulated. Between citizens of the United

Art. 9. Custom-house officers to be appointed to guard the vessels of the United States on arrival, &c. , viii. 594.
Art. 10. Proceedings of vessels of the United States on their arrival in China.

States and other governments, viii. 597. Art. 26. Merchant vessels of United States
in the five ports to be under the jurisdiction of the officers of their government.
Robbers and pirates, &c., to be arrested

Penalties for discharging vessels without a permit. Vessels departing within forty-eight hours not to be subject to tonnage or other duties, viii. 594.

and punished by the Chinese govern. ment. Disposition of the property recovered, viii. 598.
Art. 27. Shipwrecks. Vessels forced into

Art. 11. Appointment of officers to ascertain duties to be paid on goods imported.
Disputes as to amount of duties , where and how settled, viii. 594 . Art. 12. Standards of weights and measures, viii. 594.

any other than one of the five ports shall receive friendly treatment, viii. 598. Art. 28. Citizens or vessels of the United
States not to be subject to embargo, viii. 598.
Art. 29. Mutineers and deserters to be ap-

Art. 13. When tonnage and other duties shall be paid. Duties to be paid in sy-
cee silver, or in foreign money at the current rate of exchange, viii. 595. Art. 14. Regulation of transshipment of goods from one vessel of United States to another, viii . 595. Art. 15. Citizens of United States may trade with any and all citizens of China.
Not to be subject to any new limitations , &c., viii. 595. Art. 16. Chinese government not responsible for debts due by its subjects . Debts due by citizens of United States to subjects of China, viii. 595. Art. 17. Citizens of United States residing

prehended and delivered to United States consuls. Merchants, &c., of the United States, to be under the superintendence of the officers of their government, viii. 598.
Art. 30. Correspondence between the respective governments and their officers, and between individuals and their gov-
ernment, viii. 599. Art. 31. Transmission of communications,
viii . 599. Art. 32. Intercourse with ships of war, viii.
599.
Art. 33. Clandestine trade prohibited, viii. 599.
Art. 34. At the expiration of twelve years

at any ofthe five ports may obtain proper accommodations, &c. At places of an-

the two governments may treat on matters which may require alteration . The

chorage, &c., merchants may pass and repass in the immediate vicinity. No excursions into the country , & c. Preservation of the public peace, viii. 595, 596.
Art. 18. Persons may be employed to teach
the languages in any part of the empire. Citizens of the United States may buy all manner of books, viii . 596. Art. 19. Citizens of United States to be

treaty, when ratified, to be faithfully observed, & c . No individual state of the United States can appoint a minister to China . Ratifications to be exchanged in
eighteen months, viii. 599. The tariff of duties to be levied on imported
and exported merchandise at the five ports, viii. 600 to 605. intercourse with, v. 624.

specially protected by the local authori- Chinn, Edward, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi ties. Riots and attacks on their houses ! 43.

GENERAL INDEX .

29

Chinn, George, allowance to, for rations, vi . | Church, Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 81 . of St. Anne, Detroit, land confirmed to,

553. Chippewa Indians,
treaty with, of January 21 , 1785, vii. 16. ofJanuary 9, 1789, vii . 28. of August 3, 1795, vii . 49. of July 4, 1805, vii. 87. of November 17, 1807, vii . 105. of November 25, 1808, vii. 112. of September 8, 1815, vii . 131. of August 24, 1816 , vii . 146. of September 29, 1817, vii . 160 . of September 24 , 1819, vii . 203.
ofJune 16, 1820 , vii. 206. ofJuly 6, 1820, vii . 207. of August 29, 1821 , vii . 218. of August 19, 1825, vii. 272. ofAugust 5, 1826, vii. 290. of August 11 , 1827, vii. 303. of August 25 , 1828, vii . 315 . of July 29, 1829 , vii. 320 . of September 26 , 1833, vii. 431 . of September 27, 1833, vii . 444. of March 28, 1836, vii. 491.
of May 9, 1836, vii . 503. ofJanuary 14 , 1837, vii. 528.

vi. 315.
Circuit Courts, (1.) Organization of
act of 1801 , ch. 4 , ii . 89 ; repealed , ii . 132. generally, i. 74, 75 , 333 ; ii . 157, 244. may be held by one judge , i. 333 ; iii . 554 ;
v. 215, 676. district judge not to vote on appeal or er-
ror, i. 75. proceedings when judge is interested, v .
322. as to judicial circuits or judicial districts,
see those titles . as to the officers of, see the respective
titles .
in New York, ii . 719. (2.) Original Jurisdiction of.
generally, i . 78, 79 ; iii . 245 ; iv. 632. in case of interest or disability of district
judge , i. 278 , 279 ; ii . 534 ; iii . 643. under patent and copyright laws, i . 322 ; ii.
38 ; iii. 481 ; v. 124 , 544. in bankruptcy, ii. 92, 164 ; v. 444 , 445, 446 suits on assigned debentures, i. 689. under the laws as to the Indians. See In

of July 29, 1837, vii . 536. of December 20, 1837, vii. 547.
ofJanuary 23, 1838, vii. 565. explanation of, v. 680.
of February 7, 1839, vii . 578. of October 4, 1842, vii. 591. Chism, William , claim of, to be settled and

dian Affairs, p . 87. under the revenue laws, iv. 632. under the slave trade or piracy acts, i . 349 ;
ii. 71 ; iii. 514, 600. Under the post-office acts. See Post- Office,
whpe.re13t7h.e United States or its officers sue,

Chittpeaniddo,nv,iN. o1a88h., payment to be made to, vi.
736 . Chittim , John, pension to , vi . 179. Chitwood, Sarah, annuity to, vi . 386. Choctaw Indians,
treaty with, of January 3, 1786, vii. 21 . of December 17, 1801 , vii . 66. of October 17, 1802, vii. 73. of August 31 , 1803 , vii . 80. of November 16, 1805, vii. 98. of October 24, 1816, vii. 152. of October 18, 1820, vii. 210. ofJanuary 20 , 1825 , vii . 234. of September 27, 1830, vii . 333.
appropriations for purchase from, iii . 750. commissioners under treaty of September
27, 1830 , v . 180 , 211 , 513.

i. 79 ; iii. 245 . breach of laws as to steamboats, v. 306. suits by United States Bank, iii. 269. where surveyors are obstructed , iv. 417.
under neutrality laws, v . 213. where some of the parties interested live
out of the state, v. 321 . of crimes concurrent with district court, v.
517.
under the alien act, i. 572, 577. under the stamp acts, i. 532 ; iii . 80.
(3.) Appellate Jurisdiction . of cases from state courts, (in force,) i . 79,
80 ; iv. 633. obsolete , ii . 92 ; iii . 198 , 233 , 396. from district courts, i. 83, 84 ; ii . 244 , 534 ;
iii. 245, 595 ; v. 539. in cases of bankruptcy, ii. 92, 164 ; v .

rdeesdeurcvteisonfotro, vb.e1m8a0d, e777f.rom annuity to, vi.
671 . Chouteau, A. P., appropriation for expenses of,

444, 445 , 446. (4.) Special Jurisdiction . what writs they may issue, i. 81 , 82 ; v .
197.

v. 299. Chretien, Louis, payment to heirs of, vi . 338. Christ Church, Philadelphia , duties to be re-
funded to, vWia.s6h7i5n.gton, allowance to , vi.
294. Christian, James , pension allowed to, vi . 26. Christien, Francois , land claim confirmed to,
Chrisvtio. p9h2e8r., William G., land claim confirmed
to heirs of, vi. 586. Christy, William , claims of, to be settled, vi .
692 . Chubbuck, Levi, pension allowed to , vi. 23.
increase of pension to, vi. 77.
Church, Daniel W., pension to , vi. 922. Jabcz, pension to , vi . 76. Nathaniel, increase of pension to, vi . 76.

in cases of pensions , i . 244 .

in New Hampshire , i . 352.

in Vermont, ii. 167.

in Tennessee, iii. 661.

in New York, iii. 121 , 413, 774.

in in

Pennsylvania, iii . case of violation

4o6f2 .charter

of

United

States Bank, iii. 276. (5.) Times and Places of Session .
Alabama, v. 177, 210, 337, 655, 731. Arkansas, v. 177, 652. Connecticut, i. 75, 217, 253, 335, 517 ; ii .
157 ; iv. 161 ; v. 601. Delaware, i. 75, 396, 517 ; ii. 91 , 158 ; iv

673 ; v. 177. Georgia, i . 75 , 184 , 252, 518 ; ii . 91 , 158,
471 ; iii. 300 ; iv . 160, 331 ; v . 730

3895

30

GENERAL INDEX.

Ciuit Courts, (continued .) Illinois, v. 177, 215. Indiana, v. 177, 215. Kentucky, ii . 91 , 124, 132, 242, 420 ; iv. 18 ; v . 730.
Louisiana, v. 177, 337, 730 . Maine, ii. 90 , 123 , 132 ; iii . 554, 773 ; v.
690.
Maryland, i. 75, 517 ; ii. 91 , 158 ; iv. 49, 372 ; v. 177, 308.
Massachusetts, i . 75, 217, 252, 335, 517 ; ii. 91 , 123, 132, 157, 696.
Michigan, v. 215, 337. Mississippi, iv. 399 ; v. 177. Missouri, v. 177.
New Hampshire, i . 75, 217, 252, 335, 517 ; ii. 90 , 123, 132, 157, 696 ; iii. 773.
New Jersey, i . 75, 517 ; ii. 90, 157 . New York, i. 75, 217 , 253, 335, 517 ; ii . 90,
157 ; iii. 121 ; iv. 101 , 161 , 422, 497 ; v. 177, 295, 338. North Carolina, i . 126 , 252, 335 , 450 , 518, 526 ; ii. 91 , 158, 354 , 413 ; v. 507, 731 . Ohio, ii. 91, 420 ; iii. 544 ; iv . 18, 187, 399 ; v. 215, 488, 652. Pennsylvania, i. 75, 463, 517 ; ii . 1 , 91 , 158 ; iii. 462 ; v. 177, 628. Rhode Island , i. 128, 217 , 253, 335, 475, 517 ; ii. 90 , 123, 132, 157, 696. South Carolina, i. 75, 184 , 518 ; ii. 91 , 158 ; iii. 300 ; iv. 34, 124, 160, 335 ; v . 730 . Tennessee, ii . 91 , 420, 477, 516, 693 ; iv . 431 ; v. 308, 314, 392, 488, 610. Vermont, i . 197 , 335 , 475, 517 ; ii . 90, 157 ; iii. 258. Virginia, i . 75, 217, 252, 517 ; ii. 91 , 158 ; iii. 666 ; v. 177, 212, 507.
(6.) Miscellaneous Provisions. special session authorized, i . 75, 334 ; v.
392.
district judge not to vote on appeal or error from his own decision , i . 75.
adjournment, i . 76, 369, 621 ; v. 392. as to writs of error from supreme court,
see Error, p. 60. jurisdiction temporarily transferred from
district to circuit court of New Hampshire, i. 352. certain irregularities in North Carolina remedied, i. 450, 526. suits in Pennsylvania revived, ii . 1 . consolidation of actions, iii . 19. payment of money into, iii. 127. Circuits, Judicial. See Judicial Circuits, p. 91. Citation, on writs of error, i . 84, 85 , 404. Citizenship, forgery of certificates of, ii. 811 . City of Washington . See Washington, p . 176.
Civilization of Indians, iii. 517. Claiborne, Buller, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 602. Claims, Land. See Lands, Public, p . 94. Clap, Eliakim, pension to , vi . 417. Clark, Archibald, to be indemnified, vi . 307.
Ashael, account of, to be settled and paid, vi . 206.
Benjamin, claim of, to be settled and allowance made , vi . 406 . -, Carey, pension to, vi. 637.
" Catherine. See John Clark, vi . 247. Christopher, claims of, to be liquidated
and paid, vi . 716. Daniel P , claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 155.

Clark, Dennis, purchase money of land to be refunded to, and be permitted to enter another tract, vi. 141. " Edward, pension allowed to, vi. 23. " Elisha, pension allowed to , vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 84. Gibson, land claim of, to be examined, and moneys refunded to, vi. 205. Innes, duties remitted to, vi. 44 . James H., allowance to, vi. 286. John, pension to , vi. 74. land warrant to be issued to, vi. 224 .
" administratrix of, to be paid for a bill of exchange , vi . 247.
-, pension to, vi. 775. sword to be presented to nearest
male relative of, iii. 142. " Joseph, appropriation for payment of, i. 447, 448.
Josiah, pension to, vi. 724. Marston G., account of, to be settled
and paid, vi. 852.
Nathaniel, pension to, vi . 178. Parker, grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi . 43. Samuel, discharged from claim for duties, vi. 336.
-, William, pension to , vi . 418 . land warrant to issue to, vi
782 .
Clarke, Bailey E., purchase money to be refunded to representatives of, vi. 613. ? Edward, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715. Elijah L., land claim confirmed to, vi. 406 . George W., and others, forfeitures to be refunded to, vi . 921. Gershom, increase of pension to, vi. 77 " Leonard, pension to, vi. 123. Lewis, Heirs of, land claim confirmed to, vi. 406.
Matthew St. Clair, allowance to , vi 814 .
Samuel J., duties to be refunded to , vi 601 .
Thomas B., land patent to issue to , vi. 667.
William, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.
Clarkson, Randolph, pension to, vi . 111. -, Samuel, duties refunded to, vi. 263.
Clason, Isaac, duties to be refunded to, vi. 131 Claxton, Alexander, to be paid for costs and ex
penses, vi. 434. 1 allowance to, vi. 546. -, reappropriation to, iv. 671.
Thomas, silver medal to be presented to, iii. 141.
Clay, John Randolph, payment to be made , vi 667. " allowance to, vi. 755. 7 allowance to, for diplomatic services, vi . 896. appropriation for outfit of iv. 626 .
Claypoole and Dunlap, appropriation for, i . 339 Clearance,
coastwise vessels not bound to clear, i. 15.
method of obtaining fresh from salt water to be printed on back , i . 286.
fees for, i. 171 , 490, 503 ; ii. 208 ; iv. 441

GENERAL INDEX .

31

Clearance, (continued.)

Clerks in the Departments,

general acts, (obsolete,) i. 61, 177 ; (in

oath of, i. 215.

force,) i. 698 ; iii. 542.

forbidden to trade, &c. , i. 215, 281 .

penalties, i. 61 , 178, 698.

general acts respecting, i. 215, 486, 517,

form of oath on clearing, i. 698.

557, 730 ; ii. 396 ; iii. 445 ; iv. 41, 233 ;

form of clearance , i. 699.

v. 26, 523, 764.

inspection laws to be first complied with , i. 699.

employment of extra clerks, v. 526. in state department,

list of crew and bond respecting, to be

number, i. 126 ; iii. 445 ; iv. 396.

given, ii . 203 . of armed merchant vessels, ii. 342. place of clearing out. See Collection Dis-

pay, i. 68, 126, 392, 443, 486, 557, 730 , ii. 119, 396 ; iii. 445 ; iv. 396.
in treasury department,

tricts, p. 32.

to collect statistics, v. 719.

as to the manifest to be given before clear-

number, i. 281 ; iii. 445, 447, 540 ; iv.

ing. See Manifest, p. 109. Cleer, Peter, pension allowed to, vi . 459.

41, 233 ; v. 26, 55, 56, 84 , 294, 465, 523, 524.

Clements, Jacob, to be paid for demurrage, vi . 792.

pay, i. 68, 216, 281 , 392, 443, 486, 557, 730 ; ii. 119, 396 ; iii. 445, 447 ; iv.

Bryan, and Co. , accounts of, to be adjusted, v. 435 . Clemmons, Thomas, account of, to be adjusted

41, 233 ; v. 26, 55, 84 , 175, 465, 523, 524.
in war department,

and paid, vi. 617.

number, iii. 446, 477, 607 ; iv. 41 , 233 ;

Clergy, benefit of, not allowed, i. 119. Clerks of Court,

v. 26, 409, 523, 583, 718. pay, i. 68, 215, 281 , 392, 443, 486, 557,

mode of appointment of, i. 76 ; v. 322.

730 ; ii. 119, 396 ; iii. 446 ; iv. 41,

oath of, i. 76.

233, 780 ; v. 26, 175, 523.

to give bond, i. 76.

in navy department,

where records are to be kept, i. 74.

number, i. 554 ; iii. 446, 447 ; iv. 41 ,

fees of, generally, i . 277, 625 ; v. 427, 483.

233, 573 ; v. 523, 579, 580.

for attending court, i. 217, 277, 625 ; iii. 133 ; iv. 8.

pay, i. 554 ; ii. 119, 396 ; iii. 446, 447 ; iv. 41 , 233, 573 ; v. 175, 523, 579.

table of, to be returned, i. 402. on money paid into court, iii. 133.

in post-office department, number, i. 511 , 731, 733 ; ii. 396, 593 ;

in actions qui tam, i. 626. return of, to be made, v. 483,690 , 764.

iii. 447 ; iv. 41, 233, 303 ; v. 84, 461 , 498.

limitation of, v. 427, 483.

pay, i. 731 ; ii. 119, 396 ; iii. 447 ; iv.

supreme court may prescribe a table

41 , 233, 303 ; v. 89, 498.

of costs, v. 518. records of old court of appeals to be de-

in land office, ii . 716,718 ; iv. 233 ; v. 109, 764.

posited with clerk of supreme court, i. 279.

of solicitor of the treasury, iv. 416 . of attorney-general, iii. 447.

disposition of money paid into court, iii. 127, 395.

in the patent office , iv. 396 ; v. 118, 194. at the mint. See Mint, p. 115.

not to return special juries, ii. 167.

in the service of congress. See Congress,

may take bail and affidavits in certain cases, i. 278.

p. 39. of other officers. See their respective titles.

duties in case of disability of district judge , | Clerks in Office of Commissioner of Army Ac-

i. 278 ; ii. 534.

counts, compensation of, fixed, i. 187 ; vi. 5.

to settle their accounts in prize causes, iii. Cleveland, Samuel, Jr., allowance to, vi. 316.

288 .

Clicke, Henry, pension to, vi . 544.

to return lists ofjudgments to the treasury, Clifford, Thomas,

> duties to be re-

iii. 596.

and John, funded to, vi.

special provisions for clerks in the different

Son, 212.

states , Alabama, iii . 564 ; v. 315.

Clinch, Duncan L., and another, authorized to enter land, vi. 676.

Arkansas, v . 51 . Florida, v. 788.

claim of, to be settled, vi. 801 .

Illinois, iii. 502, 503. Indiana, iii . 390.

Clinton County, New York, claim of supervisors of, to be settled, vi . 164.

Iowa, v . 789.

Closeau, Louis and Gilbert, land claims con-

Kentucky, ii. 420 , 421. Louisiana, ii . 703 ; iii. 643

firmed to, vi. 407. Clothing,

Michigan, v. 62. Mississippi, iii. 413 ; v. 248

of army, what allowed , i . 430 , 484 , 754 ; ii 134, 672.

Missouri, iii. 653.

how supplied, ii. 134, 672 ; iii . 298.

New York, ii. 720 ; v. 506 .

personal, exempt from duties, i . 661 ; v. 560 .

North Carolina, ii . 163.

Clower, William , claim of, to be settled, vi . 455.

Ohio, ii. 201 , 202.

Cloyd, William , amount of a fine to be refund-

Pennsylvania, i. 486, 731 ; ii. 397. Tennessee, ii . 165 ; v. 250.

ed to, vi. 372. Coast Survey,

Vermont, i. 197.

in general, ii. 413, 425 ; iv. 570 ; v.640 .

Virginia, ii. 165 ; iii. 478, 479.

special appropriation for, iii. 316 ; iv. 569, 570.

32

GENERAL INDEX .

Coast Survey, (continued.) who to be employed in, ii. 413 ; iii. 425 ; iv. 571 ; v. 640. where property connected with, is to be deposited, iii. 425.
of Mississippi and Vermilion Bay, ii. 394. of Florida Coast, iii. 699 ; iv. 48. of Gloucester Harbor, iii. 781 . of Presque Isle Harbor, iii. 781 . of North Carolina coast, ii. 375, 435, 449,
504 ; iii. 537, 606. of Chesapeake Bay, iii. 476. between the mouths of the Mississippi and
the Sabine Rivers, v. 294. from Appalachicola Bay to the Mississippi,
v. 401. plan for reorganization of, to be prepared,
v. 640. officers of, not to receive extra pay, v. 640. note of acts respecting, ii. 414. disposition of maps and charts of, v. 660. Coasting Trade, Regulations of, obsolete acts, i . 55, 94, 160. acts in force, i. 305 ; iii . 351 , 492, 685. in steamboats, ii. 694 ; iii. 396. enrolment and license of ships in, i. 305. vessels in mackerel fishery, iv. 312 ; v. 16. by whom vessels in, may be enrolled and
licensed, iv. 372. on the N. , N. E. , and N. W. frontiers, reg-
ulated, iv. 487. vessels in whale fishery, iv. 492. where the vessels carry slaves, ii. 429 . division of United States into great dis-
tricts, iii. 492, 685. note of acts, iii. 492. See also Enrolment, 59. as to trade between Rhode Island and Long
Island, i. 426.
through Appoquinimink and Sassafras Rivers, ii. 103.
during embargo acts, ii. 453, 499, 507. confined to American vessels, iii. 351.
Cobb, Daniel, pension restored to, vi. 658. Ethelred, pension to, vi. 113. James D., pay of first lieutenant allowed
to, vi. 405. Justus, pension to, vi. 609. Oliver E., and others, allowed to com-
plete entries for drawback , vi. 413. Cobey, James, increase of pension to , vi . 94. Coburn, Morrell, pension allowed to, vi . 23.
Samuel, authorized to locate a land claim , vi . 409. Cochran, James L., authorized to enter land in lieu of others, vi . 801 .
Joseph, entitled to preference in purchasing land, vi. 801. Cockburn, Walter, land patent to issue to, vi. 508 .
Cocke, William, two months' pay allowed to, vi. 303.
Coddington, Robert, increase of pension to, vi . 102.
Codington, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 113. Codmas, Andreo, grant of land to , vi. 46. Coe, Ebenezer, increase of pension to, vi. 69. Coffee, John, accounts of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 284.
Coffin, Charles, pension to, vi . 726. David, bonds of, to be cancelled, vi . 174. William, and others, drawback allowed
to, vi. 244.

Coggswell, William, commutation of half-pay allowed to, vi. 718.
Coins and Currency,
value and weight of American (gold and silver,) i. 248 ; iv . 699 ; v. 137, 138 ; (copper,) i. 248, 299, 440 ; v. 138.
devices and legends upon, i. 248 ; v. 138. standard for gold and silver coins, v. 137. (foreign,) how estimated at custom-house,
(obsolete,) i . 41 , 95, 167, 215, 301 ; (in force,) i. 673 ; ii. 121 ; v. 625, 740. (foreign,) at what rate received in payment of duties, i. 173, 680.
(foreign,) at what rates to be a legal tender, i . 300, 539 ; ii. 173 , 374 ; iii. 322, 525, 645, 777 ; iv. 681 , 700 ; v. 607.
(foreign,) in payment for public lands, iii. 779.
value of the pound sterling at the treasury, v. 496.
assay annual of foreign, ii. 374 ; iii. 322, 779 ; iv. 681 , 700 ; v. 607.
debasement of, i . 250 ; iv. 122. counterfeiting of, &c ., ii. 404 ; iv. 121. embezzlement of, at mint, i. 250. scaling of, ii. 405. notes of acts, i. 300 ; ii. 374.
Coit, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 654. Coke, Richard, released from a bond by part
payment, vi. 895. Colburn, Reuben, fine to be refunded to, vi . 631 .
Cole, Ambrose, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43. -, Captain, pension to, vi. 609. · Hamblin, pension to, vi . 417. " Jumes, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43. , Martin, authorized to withdraw entries for land, vi. 157. Mehitabel, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 216.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 645. William, pension to, vi. 417. Coleman, John, prize money to be paid to representatives of, vi. 517, 592.
Patrick, pension to, vi. 113. William, land certificate granted to, vi. 99.
Coles, John, claim of, to be adjusted, vi. 51. Colfax, Elizabeth, pension to, vi . 866. Collection Districts,
general acts establishing, i. 29, 145, 421 , 476, 627 ; v. 664. Custom-House Districts and Ports,
in Alabama, ii. 254, 259 ; iii. 663 ; iv. 482. in Connecticut, i . 112 , 630 ; ii . 68 ; iii. 299 ;
iv. 206, 476 ; v. 489, 499, 506. in Delaware, 633 ; iv. 403, 475. in Florida, iii. 684 ; iv. 43 , 331 , 476, 701 . in Georgia, i . 336, 636 ; ii . 181 , 399 ; iii.
408 ; v. 664 . in Kentucky, i. 637. in Louisiana, ii. 252, 701 ; iii . 302, 347 ; iv.
392, 475 ; v. 146, 662, 730. in Maine, i. 627 ; ii . 68, 101 , 451 , 497, 658 ;
iii. 464, 662, 694 ; iv. 127 , 133, 476, 600, 611 , 716 ; v. 489, 578, 609, 612, 658. in Maryland, i. 633 ; ii. 228, 497 ; iii. 693 ; v. 664. in Massachusetts, i. 627 ; ii. 68, 310, 349, 658 ; iv. 43 , 237, 577, 651 , 715 ; v. 146, 381, 504, 664. in Michigan, iv. 716. in Mississippi, i . 639 ; ii . 181 , 200, 252, 418, 658 ; iii. 617 ; iv. 715 ; v. 267, 287, 664.

GENERAL INDEX.

33

Collection Districts, (continued.)

in New Hampshire, i. 627 ; ii. 101 , 656 ; iii. 693.

in New Jersey, i. 503, 632 ; ii . 355, 399 ; iv. 392, 393, 715.
in New York, i. 337, 630 ; ii. 229, 336, 657, iii. 433, 693 ; iv. 127, 237.
in North Carolina, i. 99, 635 ; ii . 137, 181 , 228, 399, 497 ; iii. 120, 299, 431 , 693 ; v. 436 .

in Ohio, ii. 108, 181 ; 336, 657 ; iii. 425 ; iv. 127.

in Pennsylvania, i. 632 ; iv. 715. in Rhode Island , i . 127, 629 ; ii. 101 ; v.
504.

in South Carolina, i . 636. in Tennessee, i. 497, 637 ; ii. 108, 252. in Vermont, i . 198, 631 ; ii . 656 ; iii.
397.

in Virginia, i. 634 ; ii. 68, 116, 181 , 658 ; iii. 693 ; v. 664.

in Western Territory, i. 638 ; ii. 181. on Mississippi River, ii . 181 , 418 ; iv.
480 .

as to what are ports of entry or See Ports, p. 136. Regulations at special Ports.
Connecticut, i. 641. Florida, iv . 576. Louisiana, iii. 347 ; v. 663, 730. Maine, ii. 68. Massachusetts , iv. 577. New York, i. 641 . North Carolina, i . 641 ; ii . 400. Pennsylvania, i. 641 .

delivery.

Virginia, i . 641 ; ii . 68, 116 ; iv. 382, 414. Lake Champlain, iii. 396. Collection of Duties, general acts respecting, i . 29, 145, 627 ; iii.
433, 693, 729 ; iv. 590, 632 ; v . 562.
special acts respecting, i. 112, 160, 336, 476, 502 ; ii. 339, 776, 794 ; iii. 195, 231 , 343, 396, 729, 781 ; iv. 480.

in case of obstruction by ice , i . 188. collection laws extended to Louisiana,
ii. 251. public warehouses, iii. 469. statement of foreign commerce, & c .,
iii. 541.

terms of offices, & c. , of collectors, & c. , iii. 582.

imports froin adjacent territory, iii. 616.
respecting Florida , iii . 660, 684. division of United States into great
districts, iii. 492, 685. time of entry for drawback enlarged,
iv. 95.
respecting drawback, iv. 235.
payments under protest, v. 348, 727. provision as to the various officers of the

customs. See Customs, Officers ofthe, p. 44.

as to drawbacks . See Drawbacks, p. 54.
as to appraisement. See Appraisers, p. 6.

as to bounty of fish. See Bounty, p. 16, or Fisheries, p . 63.
for provisions respecting revenue cutters . See Revenue Cutters, p. 147.
See also Manifests, p . 109. Invoice, p . 88. Clearance, p. 30. Entry, p . 59.
manifest of cargo, &c ., i . 616. VOL. VIII. 5

Collection of Dutics, (continued .) forfeiture, for want of, i. 646. how and when certified , i. 647. forfeiture for not producing, i . 647. unlading and transshipment before arrival in port, prohibited, i. 648. departure after arrival before entry, prohibited, i. 648. report of arrival, when made , i. 649. form of oath, on report, i. 649. report of spirits and wines, &c. , i. 650. ships of war, exception of, i. 651. when ships to proceed to foreign ports, without securing duties, i. 651. to other districts, i. 652.
ships bound to various districts, how to proceed, i. 652, 653.
spirits, wines, and teas, entry of, i . 658. how and when landed, i. 658 . permit for, i. 658. certificate of landing, i. 659 ; v. 131 . form oflanding, i. 659, 660. supervisors to provide blanks for certifi
cates, i. 660. certificates delivered to purchasers, i . 660. effect of non-delivery of, i . 660. marks on casks to be defaced before sale,
i. 660.
penalty for wrongful defacing marks on casks, i. 660.
sea stores, report of, i. 661. baggage, report of, i . 661 ; iii. 782. implements of trade, report of, i. 661. form of oath, on report of, i. 661 . form of bond on, i. 662.
no duty on domestic goods brought back, i. 662.
report, oath, and entry of such domestic goods, i. 662, 663.
permit and bond on ditto, i. 662, 666. duties, mode of estimating on entry, i.
664 ; iii. 732.
ad valorem, i. 673 ; iii. 732 ; v. 563. permits, when and how granted for unlad-
ing, i . 665, 673 ; iii. 640.
goods, at what times unladen, i. 665, 673 ; iii. 640.
forfeiture for unlading, without a permit, i. 665.
goods to be weighed and gauged before removal, i. 665.
incomplete entry, for want of invoice , provided for, i. 665.
ditto damaged, i . 665. to be stored, i. 665. appraisement in cases of goods without in-
voice, i. 666.
ditto of damaged goods, i. 666. oath of appraisers, i. 666. inspectors, duties of, i. 667, 668. to be put on board of vessels arriving, i.
667. ditto of vessels bound to another district, i.
667.
to attend delivery of cargo, i. 667. inspectors, how paid, i. 667. penalty for neglect of duty, i. 667. officers of customs, to go on board of ves-
sels, within or without their districts, within four leagues of the coast, to search, i. 668 ; iii. 195, 231 , 232. hatches secured after sunset, i. 668. penalty for breaking fastenings, i. 668.

34

GENERAL INDEX .

Collection of Duties, (continued .) when deliveries complete, returns to be made to collectors, i. 668. form of return, i. 668, 669.
time for unlading of goods, i . 669 ; iii. 730, 739.
goods not unladen within proper time, taken possession of, i. 669.
proceedings on, and sale of such goods , i . 669, 670.
proceedings, when such goods are perishable, i. 670.
when collector may enlarge time for unlading, i. 670.
proceedings when cargo does not agree with manifest, i. 671 .
post entries, when made , i. 671. penalty for fraudulent disagreement with
entry, i. 671 . allowance for drafts and tare, i. 671.
for leakage and breakage , i . 672. vessels in distress, regulations for, i. 672.
when goods unladen from , i. 672. proceedings as to wrecked goods, iii. 736. duties ad valorem, how estimated, i. 673 ;
iii. 732 ; v. 563.
foreign coins and currencies , how estimated, i. 673, 680 ; and see Coins, p. 32.
duties to be secured before permit, i. 673. bonds for, i . 673 ; i1. 729, 733, 737. only by citizens and residents, iii. 737. duties, how and at what times payable, i.
673 ; iii. 737.
in current money, iii. 343. term of credit generally, i. 673 ; ii . 315,
316, 471 , 513 ; iii. 563. credit on wines, spirits, and teas , i. 673,
674 ; ii. 315 ; iii. 563. deposit of goods in warehouses for security
of duties, regulated, i. 674. proceedings in such deposit, i. 674, 675. form of bonds for securing duties, i . 675 ;
iii. 737.
consignee to be deemed owner, as to duties, &c., i. 675.
fraudulent transfers provided against, i. 675.
tonnage duties, when and how paid, i. 675 ; iii. 351 ; and see Tonnage Duties, p. 169.
deposit of ship's register, provided for, i . 675.
tonnage of ships, how ascertained, i. 675, 676.
bonds for duties, to be sued when payable , i. 676.
priority to the United States in case of insolvency, i. 676.
sureties to have like priority, i. 676 . what deemed cases of insolvency, i. 676. debtors for duties to give special bail, i.
676.
Judgment on such suits, at first term ofthe court, i. 677.
interest on judgment, until paid , i . 677. goods fraudulently invoiced, forfeited, i.
677 ; iii. 735 . collector on suspicion may order appraise-
ment, i. 677. officers of customs, when they may open
packages, i. 677. when search suspected places, i. 677 ; iii.
231 , 232.
search regulated, i . 677, 678.

Collection of Duties, (continued.) goods seized to be in custody of collector, until adjudication, i . 678. officers may seize without as well as within their districts, i. 678.
buying or concealing smuggled goods , penalty for, i. 678 ; i. 781 , 782.
officers seizing may plead general issue , i. 678.
double costs to, in certain cases, i . 678. onus probandi, when on claimant, i. 678. resistance and obstruction of officers pun-
ished, i. 678 ; iii. 782. weighers and gaugers, returns by, how and
when made, i. 678, 679. form of returns, i. 679. fees of officers, table of, to be hung up in
custom-house , i. 680. extortion, penalty for, i. 680 ; iii. 696. fraudulent conduct of inspectors, weighers,
and other officers, punished, i . 680. false certificates by officers, punished, i.
680.
obstruction of ships by ice provided for, i. 694.
officers not to engage in trade, i. 695. bribery of officers punished, i . 695. false entries, connivance at, punished , i.
695. false oaths and affirmations punished as
perjury, i . 695 . penalties, forfeitures, how sued for, i . 695 ;
iii. 197, 739, 782. how distributed, i. 697 ; iii . 197, 739, 782. proceedings for condemnation , i. 696, 697.
when delivery of goods, on appraisement, to claimant, i. 696.
judgment on bond, for appraised value , i. 696 .
certificate of probable cause, i. 696 ; ii 422.
proceedings on restitution, i. 696. ships and goods condemned, how sold, i.
696.
limitation of suits for penalties and forfeitures, i. 696.
officers may be witnesses, i. 697. goods to be imported by sea only, except
on frontiers, &c., i. 697. in vessels of thirty tons, i. 697. forfeiture for illegal importation, i. 698. importation of horses , cattle, sheep, &c.,
for breed, entry of, i. 699. forfeiture for non-entry, i. 699. authority to deputies to perform duties of
collectors and naval officers, i. 699. persons scrupulous of taking an oath may
affirm , i. 699. vessels to bring to, when required or chased
by revenue cutters, i . 700.
penalty for illegally hoisting pendant, i. 701.
beer, porter, and ale, regulations on importation of, i. 701. in what casks and packages , i. 701 . distilled spirits and refined sugar, impor tation of, regulated, i. 701 ; iii . 338 ; iv. 235 ; v. 563. in what vessels, casks, and packages, i. 701 ; iii. 338 ; iv. 235. forfeiture on non-compliance, i . 701.
treaty privileges secured to British subjects and Indians, i. 701 .

GENERAL INDEX.

35

Collection of Duties, (continued.) frontier trade regulated, i. 702, 703, 704 ; ii . 182, 192 , 200, 253 ; iii . 396, 616, 781 .
in what boats and vessels, i . 702. how entry and manifests, i. 702. how entry, when goods to be carried
over portages, i. 702. oaths and certificates in such cases, i.
702, 703.
penalty for frauds in respect to goods to be carried over portages, &c., i. 703.
what oath to be taken in such cases, i . 703. forms in substance not to be deviated from,
nor penalty for mistakes, i. 704. secretary of treasury may prescribe addi-
tions to forms, i. 704. commissions, how divided in case of death
of collector, i. 709.
trade on Mississippi regulated, ii . 182, 192, 200, 248, 252, 353 ; iii. 347.
in District of Columbia, inspection in, ii . 195.
slave-trade vessels prohibited from entry, ii. 205.
state laws prohibiting slave trade to be observed, ii. 206.
transportation of goods by land allowed between certain places with saving of drawback, ii . 103, 261 ; iii . 405 ; iv. 188.
treaty with Spain as to vessels in distress, enforced, ii. 314.
entry of certain vessels from India author-
ized, (obsolete, ) ii . 776, 794. no goods to be imported except in Ameri-
can ships, or ships of the country of production, iii. 351 . forfeiture for illegal importation , ii. 351 . foreign vessels not to trade with goods not part of original cargo, between different ports of United States, iii. 351. tonnage duties on ships trading between different districts, iii. 351.
on ships from foreign ports, iii. 351. fraudulent embezzlement of wines and
spirits deposited, punished, iii. 470. the values of all imported articles to be as-
certained, as articles ad valorem, iii. 542. value of exported articles to be ascertained,
and how, iii. 542. manifest on foreign voyage to contain value
ofthe goods, and to be verified by oath, iii. 542.
collectors to keep accounts of national character and tonnage of all vessels, iii. 543 .
collectors to make quarterly returns thereof, iii. 543.
secretary oftreasury to prescribe rules and forms thereof, iii . 543.
annual statements required , iii. 543.
importations in Spanish ships into Florida, provided for, iii. 660.
duties in Florida provided for, iii. 684. emoluments of custom-house officers fur-
ther limited, iii. 694 , 695. clerks, number and pay of them, and of
deputies, regulated, iii. 695. how and when paid, iii. 696
penalty for receiving fees by revenue officers not provided for by law, iii. 696.

Collection of Duties, (continued.) 10 entry of goods subject to ad valorem duties, without invoice, exoept, &c ., iii. 433, 434, 729. not to extend to wrecked goods, iii. 433, 729 . provisions for cases where no invoice re-
ceived, iii. 434, 729. when adinitted on appraisement, iii . 434,
729, 730.
goods not entered deposited in public warehouses, iii. 434, 730.
provisions for such cases, iii. 730. oaths on entry by owner, consignee, and
agent, iii. 730, 731 . by manufacturer , iii. 732.
duties on goods subject to ad valorem duties, how made, iii. 733. how, when citizens absent, iii. 733.
no ad valorem goods admitted to entry without oath to invoice, iii. 434, 733.
how oath verified abroad , iii. 733. executors, administrators, and assignees to
take the oath, iii. 734. secretary of treasury may admit goods of
non-residents to entry in his discretion, iii. 734.
goods belonging partly to persons in United States, admissible on their oath , iii. 734.
when invoices deemed suspicious, iii. 734. suspected goods, how appraised , and to pay
duties, iii. 734, 735.
collectors to open certain packages, iii . 735 ; v. 565.
fraudulent invoices, forfeiture for, iii. 735 ; v. 565.
secretary of treasury may remit forfeitures on account of mistake, iii. 735.
distribution of penalties on suspected invoices appraised, iii . 736.
goods wrecked, how admitted to entry, iii 736 ; v. 609.
consular fee for certificate and verification
of invoices, iii. 737.
goods admitted to entry on invoice, the value in invoice conclusive, iii. 737.
bonds for duties in name of a firm to bind
all the partners , iii. 737. no bond for duties to be accepted, unless
principal a resident and sureties citizens iii. 737.
on duties paid in cash, a discount of 4 per cent. allowed, iii. 737.
penalties, how sued for, mitigated and distributed, iii. 739.
frontier trade further regulated, iii . 781. penalty for concealing, receiving, or buy-
ing smuggled goods, iii . 781 , 782. brandy to be imported in casks not less
than 15 gallons, iv. 235. where the duty is ad valorem, goods to be
appraised, iv. 273, 274. where value exceeds invoice 10 per cent..
duty of 50 per cent. , iv. 274. secretary of the treasury authorized to
make rules for appraising, iv. 274. as to goods transported coastwise , iv. 304. appeal from appraisement, iv. 409.
number of packages to be examined, iv 410 ; v. 565.
consequences of discrepancy, iv. 410 goods when to be delivered, iv. 410. goods for reexportation , iv. 410

36

GENERAL INDEX .

Collection of Duties, (continued.)

Collection of Duties, (continued .)

compensation of assistant appraisers, iv. 411..

number of inspectors, &c., not to be increased, v. 696.

forfeitures, how sued, iv. 411.
additional bond, when to be required, iv. 411.

prior laws to be in force, v. 566. importation of indecent prints, &c. , pro-
hibited, v. 566.

certain duties to be refunded, iv. 451.

"ton," meaning of, v. 567.

merchandise imported into Pittsburg, and other western cities, duties to be there

payments under protest, v. 348, 727. instructions of the secretary of the treas-

secured and paid, iv. 480.

ury to be followed, v. 566.

act requiring addition of 10 or 20 per cent. Collectors of the Customs,

to value, to be repealed , iv. 590, 591.

general acts as to duties of, (obsolete,) i. 38,

when to be paid in cash, iv. 591. no deposit of teas in bond, iv. 591 .

154, 155 ; iii. 693 ; (in force ,) i . 642, 643, 644.

law requiring teas to be weighed repealed, iv. 591.
duties on wool to be paid in cash or put in bond, iv. 591.

to commence suit on unpaid bonds, i. 676.
provision for removal of suits against, to circuit court, iii. 396 ; iv. 633.
to make out statements of the commerce

appraisement regulated , iv . 591.

of the United States, iii. 541.

goods not corresponding with entry forfeit-

term of office of, iii. 582.

ed, iv. 593.
articles enumerated may be bonded, iv. 593, 594 .

bond of, i. 705 ; iii. 582 ; v. 661. oath of, i. 641 . may appoint deputies, i . 644 ; iii. 397, 681 .

certain articles may be deposited, iv. 635. in certain cases, goods may remain in own-
er's warehouse, iv. 635. after December 31 , 1833, all duties exceed-
ing 20 per cent. to be reduced by bien-

compensation of. See Customs, Officers of the, p. 44.
to deposit bonds in bank , ii. 72. to return lists of passengers, iii. 489. to render account of fees, iii. 694 ; iv. 699 ;

nially striking off one tenth, iv. 629. duties to be paid in cash, iv. 630 ; v. 562. goods to be valued at ports of entry, iv.
630.
president authorized in certain cases to

v. 113, 175, 265, 432. for provisions common to all officers of the
customs, see that title.
Collier, Charles M., to be paid for a boat captured, vi. 290.

change the site of custom- house , iv.

" Coleman A. , pension to, vi. 681.

632 .

Collins, Charles, moiety of a forfeiture to be

property in custody irrepleviable , iv. 633.

paid to, vi. 436.

suits in state courts against officers of U. States removable to C. C., iii. 396 ; iv. 634 .

John, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.
-, pension to, vi . 646.

in case of obstruction to the laws, iv. 634 .
further credit on bonds for duties outstand-
ing in 1837, v. 205.

Polly, alias Bell, authorized to enter land, vi. 361 .
" Thomas, a balance released to, vi. 386. --, pension to, vi . 840.

remission duties on goods destroyed by fire

William, pension to , vi. 178, 578, 733.

in New York, v. 284.

Collomy, Daniel, pension to, vi . 189.

all moneys received under protest or for Collyer, Isaac, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 307.

unascertained duties, to be paid into the Colmus, Levi, pension to, vi. 910.

treasury, v. 349, 727.

Colombia,

act commonly called the " forcing act," iv. 632.

vessels of, to pay same duties as American, iv. 154.

vessels turned off by the blockade from

back duties to be refunded, iv. 154.

Mexican ports, may enter in United States, v . 255. act of 1842, v . 561.
additional duty of 10 per cent. , on goods imported in foreign vessels, v. 561 .
duties to be paid in cash, v. 561. goods may be stored for sixty or ninety
days , v. 562. and then sold, v . 562. sale of unclaimed goods, v. 562, 563. foreign valuation established, v . 563.

General Convention of Peace, Amity, Navigation and Commerce with, October 3, 1824, viii. 306.
Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace, & c.,
to be observed, &c. , viii . 306 . Art. 2. Favors to other nations to be com-
mon to both, viii. 306. Art. 3. Citizens of the United States at
liberty to frequent all the coasts and countries of the republic of Colombia. Citizens of Colombia to enjoy in the

owners may be examined under oath, v. 564.

United States the same privileges, viii. 306.

appraisement, v. 564, 566.

Art. 4. Merchants and commanders of

duties may be taken in the article itself, v. 565.

ships, &c., to manage their business as citizens of the most favored nations,

penalty for smuggling and for frauds on the revenue, v. 565.

viii. 308. Art. 5. Citizens of neither of the contract-

secretary of the treasury may give instructions to officers of the customs, v. 566.

ing parties liable to embargo, &c. , viii 308 .

where duty exceeds 35 per cent. of value ,

Art. 6. Citizens of either party seeking ref

report to be made, v. 566.

uge to be treated as friends, viii . 308.

GENERAL INDEX.

37

Colombia, (continued. )

Colonial Trade, (British,)

Art. 7. Ships or vessels ofeither party cap-

interdicted with British ships, to American

tured by pirates to be delivered up, viii.

ports, iii. 432. See British Colonics, p.

308.

18.

Art. 8. Assistance in case of shipwreck, viii. 308.
Art. 9. Citizens of each of the parties may dispose of their goods in the jurisdiction of the other. Succession to estates of foreigners, viii. 308.
Art. 10. Special protection to be given to the person and property of citizens of either party, viii. 310.
Art. 11. Security of conscience, viii. 310. Art. 12. Citizens of either party may sail

Colony, Richard, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Colquhoun, William S., to be paid for services,
vi. 760.
Colson, David, pension restored to, vi. 417. Colt, William, to be paid for services, vi. 755. Colter, John, land warrant to be issued to, vi.
65.
Columbia, District of. See District ofColumbia, 51.
Columbia Turnpike Roads, charter of, ii. 570, 577 ; iii. 284, 391.

with their ships from any port to the places of those who are at enmity with either party, viii. 310. Art. 13. Neutral property found on board enemy's vessels shall be held and consid-
ered as enemy's property. Exceptions, viii. 312.
Art. 14. Liberty of navigation and commerce to extend to all kinds of merchan-
dise, except certain contraband articles, viii. 312. Art. 15. All other merchandise to be held

Columbian College, in the District of Columbia, incorporated, vi . 255. donation to, iv. 603.
medical faculty in, v. 672. -, obligations, & c ., to be ex-
changed with trustees of, vi. 373. authorized to sell land, vi.
751 .
Institute, incorporated, vi . 214. " use of land granted to, vi
247. grant of land to, vi. 316.

free, viii. 312. Art. 16. Articles of contraband found in a
vessel bound to an enemy's port shall be subject to confiscation, viii. 312. Art. 17. Vessels sailing for a port besieged without notice may be turned away, viii. 314.

Insurance Company, incorporated, vi. 198.
Library Company, incorporated, vi. 51 . Columbus,
portrait of, to be placed in the library of congress, iv. 78.
Columns. See Buoys, Beacons, &c.

Art. 18. Regulation of visits at sea, viii . 314. Comaleskee, or Challenge, land relinquished to,

Art. 19. Agreement entered into to avoid

vi. 441.

vexation in the examination of papers Comb, Charles, Children of, land claim con-

relative to the ownership of vessels, &c.,

firmed to, vi. 528.

viii. 314.

Combination, to resist laws, i. 596.

Art. 20. Vessels under convoy, viii. 316. Combs, Leslie, pension to, vi . 638.

Art. 21. Prize courts alone to take cognizance of prize causes, viii . 316.
Art. 22. No citizen of either contracting party shall accept a commission, & c. , viii . 316.
Art. 23. Six months allowed to merchants
to remove in case of war, viii. 316. Art. 24. Debts of individuals, in case of
war, not to be sequestered, viii. 316. Art. 25. Same favors to be granted to en-
voys, &c., as enjoyed by the most favored nations, viii. 316. Art. 26. Consuls to be adinitted in all ports, viii. 318. Art. 27. Consuls to exhibit their commis-
sions, viii. 318. Art. 28. Consuls and persons attached to
their service exempt from public service, viii. 318. Art. 29. Consuls have power to require the assistance of the authorities for the arrest, &c., of deserters, viii . 318.
Art. 30. A consular convention to be agreed upon, viii. 320.
Art. 31. Points agreed upon relative to the treaty. Treaty to remain in force for
twelve years. Harmony and good correspondence between the two nations.
No reprisals in case of parties not agreeing to the treaty. Treaty to be approved and ratifications exchanged in eight months, viii. 320. act to carry said treaty into effect, iv. 515.

Comeau, Alexander, land claim confirmed to, vi. 808 .
Jean Baptiste, authorized to enter land, vi. 820, 871 . Comet, indemnity for loss of slaves on board of, payment of, v. 601 . Comins, Jonas, pension to, vi. 654 . Commerce. See Foreign Commerce. Navi-
gation. Ships. Portugal. Colombia. foreign, accurate statements of, provided
for, iii. 541 ; v. 507, 537. obsolete act for protection of, against
France, i . 561 , 565, 578, 611 , 613. obsolete act for protection of, against Trip-
oli, ii. 129, 130 . obsolete act for protection against Barbary
powers, ii. 206, 291. with Prussia, iv. 308. with Spain, iv. 578, 741 with British colonies, iii . 432, 602, 740 ; iv.
419.
power of congress to regulate, i. 13. appropriations for extending, ii . 206. use of enemy's licenses prohibited, iii.
84.
with Cayenne, v. 489. with Miquelon and St. Pierre Islands, v.
748 .
with Martinique and Guadaloupe , iv. 269, 573.
discriminating duties on goods and vessels . See those titles.
digest of foreign regulations of, v. 24.

GENERAL INDEX .

Commerce, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners | Commissioners, (continued.)

and crew of, vi. 789.

ofthe navy pension fund, i. 716 ; ii. 53,

Commager, Henry S. , payment to be made to,

293, 294 ; iii . 288.

vi. 924.

of pensions,

Commercial Bank of Lake Erie, claim of, to be compromised, vi. 473.
Commissarics in the Army,
number and appointment of, ii. 697, 817 ; iii. 298, 427, 615 , 616 ; iv . 360 ; v. 258.
duties of, ii. 817 ; iii . 427, 615.

appointment of, iv. 622 , 779 ; v. 187, 369, 597.
pay, iv. 622, 779 ; v. 187, 370, 597. duties of, iv. 622, 779 ; v. 187, 369,
597.
franking privilege of, iv. 627 ; v. 187,

to give bond, iii. 298, 427.

370, 597, 734.

pay of, ii. 697 ; iii. 298, 427 ; v. 258. to be subject to rules and articles of war,

under the acts respecting property lost in the service of the United States. See

iii. 298, 427. of ordnance, ii. 732, 733, 819.

Property, p. 142. of Cumberland Road. See that title, p.

forbidden to trade, ii . 742 ; iii. 427.

44.

commissary-general, ii. 697, 742 ; iii. 298, 427, 615.

of general land office, ii. 716 ; v. 107. of Indian affairs, iv . 564.

term of office, iii. 582.

to provide for removal of Indians, iv. 595.

bond of, ii. 697 ; iii . 298 , 427.

Commissions, where and how to be made out,

pay of, ii. 697 ; iii. 298.

sealed, and recorded, i . 68 ; iii. 582.

office abolished , v . 513.

Comparet, Francis, payment to, vi. 409.

sections 7, 8, 9, and 10 of act of 1818, ch. 61 , continued in force , iii. 721 ; iv. 360, 780.
Commissioners,

Compensation and Salaries, of president, i . 72, 318. of vice president, i. 72, 318. of secretaries of the departments, i. 67,553,

to take bail and affidavits, ii. 679, 680 . to take depositions, iii. 350.

729, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 445, 484.

to swear appraisers , i. 395.

ofjudges of supreme court, i . 72 ; iii. 484.

to exercise the authority of justices of the

postmaster-general and assistants, i. 235,

peace , v . 516, 517.

238, 358, 363 , 730 ; ii . 250 , 456, 615, 713 ;

to take recognizances of witnesses, v. 517.

iii. 484 ; iv. 239 ; v. 89, 734.

to administer poor debtor's oath. See Poor Debtors, p. 135.

foreign ministers , i . 128 ; ii . 78, 608 ; v. 525.

in bankruptcy, v. 445 . to test inventions concerning steam boilers,

attorney-general , i . 72 , 497, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 718 ; iii . 309, 484 ; iv . 416.

v. 252, 261 , 627. to inspect steam engines in use, v . 304. under the treaty,
of Dancing Rabbit Creek, v. 180, 211 , 513.

members of congress, i . 70, 533 ; iii 257, 345, 404.
of president of senate pro tempore, ii. 777. clerks and officers of congress, i. 71, 252 ;
ii. 58, 170, 375 ; iii . 137, 226, 334, 431 ,

with France, iv . 574, 679, 778 ; v. 200. with Denmark, iv. 446. of Ghent, iii. 640 ; iv . 269.

645 ; iv. 5, 138, 421. of paymaster-general, ii. 38 ; iii. 128. of consuls, i. 255, 256.

treaty of 1794 with Great Britain, i. 459 .

to Barbary powers, ii. 608. of custom-house officers, (obsolete acts,) i .

respecting Florida, iii . 639, 768. with Spain for indemnity, v. 34.

171 , 461 , 476, 502, 596 ; iii. 306, 368, 693.

with king of the Two Sicilies, iv. 666, 680 .

acts in force, i . 706 , 707 , 708, 709 ; ii. 72, 138, 172, 300 , 658 ; iv. 43, 487, 629, 698,

with Mexico, v. 383, 452.
of army accounts, i . 187 ; vi. 5. of loans,

715, 771 ; v. 175, 242, 264 , 349, 431, 610, 696.
in case of death, how divided , i. 709.

office of, i. 140 , 142 ; iii . 360.

of officers of revenue cutters, i. 461 , 556,

duties of, transferred to Bank of Unit-

708 ; v. 65.

ed States, iii. 360, 403, 774. Bank of United States no longer to act

of custom-house appraisers, iii. 736. of commissioner of revenue, (obsolete,) i.

as commissioner of loans , v . 8.

280, 340, 730 ; ii. 153.

appropriations for clerks, and expenses of, i . 216, 284, 376, 444, 486, 535,

of superintendents of arsenals, iii. 323 . of commissioner of land office , ii. 716.

731 ; ii. 396, 417 ; iii. 761.

of keepers of lighthouses, iv. 284.

to purchase public debt, i . 282, 458, 488. of revenue, i. 280 ; ii. 149 , 152 ; iii . 39, 146,

of solicitor ofthe treasury, iv. 416. of translator in state department, v. 26.

280, 340, 402, 730.
of public buildings, i . 130 ; iii. 324, 325 ; iv. 266.
pay of, iii. 325, 689 ; iv. 194 ; v. 610.

of disbursing agent in state department, v. 26.
of surveyor-generals, iv. 493, 531 ; v. 26. of clerks in the quartermaster-general's

to give bond, iii . 690.

office, v. 26.

annual report of, iv. 363 ; vi. 815.

ofcommissioner of patents, v. 117.

of sinking fund, i. 186, 458 , 488 ; ii. 416 ; v. 115.

of commissioner of pensions, iv . 779 ; v. 187.

secretary of, i . 459 .

of judge of orphans ' court of Alexandria

of the navy, iii . 202, 231 ; v. 579.

county, iv. 277.

GENERAL INDEX .

39

Compensation and Salaries, (continued .) of members of legislatures of territories, iv. 303 ; v. 14. of warden and officers of penitentiary in the District of Columbia, iv. 366, 445. of marshals for taking 6th census, v. 334. of commissioners of insolvency, iv. 468. of commissioners of Indian affairs, iv. 564. of commissioners of land claims, iv. 565. of superintendents of Indian affairs, iv. 735.
of Indian agents, iv. 735. of officers attached to Indian department,
iv. 735, 736. of secretary to sign patents, v. 111. of officers in land office , v. 111 .
of clerks in patent office, v. 118. general act establishing the salaries of
clerks, messengers, &c., at Washington, v. 523. of bearer of electoral votes, iv. 81. of commissioner of public buildings, iii. 325, 639 ; iv. 194 ; v. 610. of officers under the bankrupt act, v. 446, 484.
extra compensation forbidden , v. 349, 510. See also the titles of the respective officers . Compromise, of debts due United States, v. 178, 317. Compton, John, land patent to issue to, vi. 870.
Comptrollers, duties of, i. 66, 441 ; ii. 536 ; iii . 367. number of, i. 65 ; iii. 366. pay of, i. 67, 215, 281 , 340, 730 ; ii . 152, 250 ; iii. 309, 368. duties as inspector of assays. See Assays, p. 9.
Conant, Mack and, claim of, to be settled, vi. 354 .
Shubael, payment to be made to, vi. 617.
Conard, John, judgment against, to be paid, vi. 438 .
Concealment,
of smuggled goods, i. 678 ; iii. 781 , 782. of treason, i. 112. of felonies, i. 113. of stolen goods, iv . 116. Concling, Josiah, pension allowed to, vi. 26.
Condy, Jeremiah and William, duties remitted to, vi. 14.
Cone, Henry, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 93.
" Jared, pension allowed to, vi. 474. Joseph, grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi. 43.
Confederacies, with pirates, i. 115. Confederation, Articles of, i. 4. Conger, Stephen M., pension to, vi. 178.
Zachariah S., pension to, vi . 416. Congress,
powers of, i. 13, 14. oath of members, how taken , i. 19, 23.
contested elections, evidence in, i . 537 ; ii. 39.
oaths administered by committees of, i . 554 , iii. 345 .
removal of, in case of sickness, or other circumstances, i . 353.
assent of, to state acts. See under the names of the states.
members not to engage in public contracts, ii. 484.

Congress, (continued .) printing of, how contracted for, iii. 249, 400, 538 ; v. 764.
manner of executing printing of, iv. 322 .
election of printer of, iv. 369. library of. See Library, p. 102. expenditures of contingent fund, iii. 213,
789 ; v. 25, 526, 527, 681 , 763. annual reports to. See Reports, p. 146. apportionment of representation . See Ap
portionment, p. 5. meetings of, to be on the 1st Monday in De-
cember, unless special provision is made otherwise, i. 11.
special acts respecting session of, (obsolete,) i. 96, 198, 267, 370, 507, 525 ; ii. 85, 242, 283, 490, 514, 549, 781 , 804 ; iii. 48, 128, 433, 581.
president may convene, i. 17. delegates to, power of, iii. 363.
authority to send . See the respective territories.
each house to keep a journal , i. 12. may make rules and expel members, i. 12.
may call for information, &c., i . 66. appropriation for burial-ground, iv. 520,580
581 .
temporary building for accommodation of, iii. 251.
pay of members , i. 70, 448, 533 ; iii. 257, 345, 404.
pay of president of senate pro tempore, ii. 777 ; iii. 404.
pay of speaker, iii. 404.
pay of clerk of House of Representatives and his clerks, i . 71 , 449 , 517, 557, 612,
727; ii. 58, 170, 375 ; iii . 137, 431 , 645 ; iv. 5, 158, 421 ; v. 175. pay of secretary of senate and his
clerks, i. 71 ; 449, 517, 557, 612, 727 ; ii. 58, 170, 375 ; iii. 137, 431 , 645 ; iv. 5, 138, 421 ; v. 175. pay of chaplains, i. 71 , 449 ; iii. 334.
pay of other officers of, i . 71, 252, 449, 517, 537, 557, 608, 727 ; ii. 58, 127, 170, 375 ; iii. 226.
duties of inferior officers of, i. 252.
franking privilege of members and offi cers. See Franking Privilege, p. 69.
Congress, Frigate, appropriation for rebuilding, iv. 728.
Congressional Documents, subscription to a compilation of, iv. 471, 669. distribution of, iv. 606 ; v. 25. appropriations for, v. 25, 174.
Conkin, John, pension to, vi. 650. Conly, Isaac, pension to, vi. 769. Connecticut,
cession of the Western Reserve , ii. 56. payment of her claim, v. 151. Connecticut Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, grant of a township to, vi. 229. Connel, John, and others, credits to be entered on judgments against, vi. 893. Conner, William, Wife, and Children, land to be vested in, vi. 270 . Conspiracies, to cast away ships, & c ., iv. 122. Consolidation, of suits, provided for, iii. 21. Constables, compensation of, for duties in courts i. 276, 624.

40

GENERAL INDEX.

Constellation, Frigate,

Consuls and Vice- Consuls, (continued .)

action with the La Vengeance, ii . 87.

China, viii. 593, 597.

building and repairs of, i. 509, 535, 547 ; ii.

Colombia, viii . 318.

699, 776.

Denmark, viii. 342.

Constitution of United States, i. 10.

Ecuador, viii. 546, 548.

amendments proposed , i . 97, 98, 402 ; ii. 306, 613.

France, viii. 28, 106, 108, 110, 112, 182, 212.

adopted, i. 21 , 22.

Great Britain, viii . 125, 230.

publication of, iii. 439.

Greece, viii. 504.

Constitution, Frigate,

Hanover, viii. 556.

building and repairs of, i . 509, 535, 547.

Mexico, viii. 422, 424.

reward to officers and crew of, ii. 818, 830,

Morocco, viii. 103, 486.

831 ; iii. 301 , 341 .

Netherlands, viii. 44 , 523.

Consuls and Vice- Consuls,

Ottoman Porte, viii. 408.

suits by and against foreign, i. 17, 77, 80.

Peru- Bolivia, viii. 494.

foreign, to receive ships ' papers, iii. 362.

Portugal, viii. 564 , 566.

not to give up papers before clearance , iii.

Prussia, viii. 98, 176, 382.

362.

Russia, viii. 448.

foreign powers of, ii. 810.

Sardinia, viii. 518.

American, powers and duties of, i. 254 ; ii.

Siam, viii. 455.

204 ; v. 394.

Spain, viii. 150.

to give certificates where debenture is

Sweden, viii. 74, 236, 352.

claimed, i. 690, 691. verification of foreign powers of attorney,

Tripoli, viii. 215, 216. Tunis, viii. 160.

to transfers of United States stock by, ii.

Turkey, viii. 408.

205, 296.

Venezuela, viii . 480, 482.

foreign, may protest against employment Contagious Sickness, removal in case of, i . 353,

of foreign seamen, ii. 810.

620, 621.

ships ' papers to be deposited with , ii . 203 ; | Contempts,

v. 370, 395. offences by, ii. 204 , 205 ; v. 397. false certificates by, ii. 204 , 205.

to courts, punishable, i . 83 ; iii. 396 ; iv. 487, 488.
defined and limited, iv . 487, 488.

at Algiers, i. 533.

Contested Elections in Congress, evidence how

with Barbary powers , ii. 608.

taken, i. 537 ; ii. 39.

bonds given by, i. 256.

Contingent Fund,

powers over effects of persons deceased, i.

of congress, annual statement of expendi

255.

ture of, required, iii . 789 ; v. 25, 527.

discharge of seamen, i. 256 ; ii . 203 ; v. 395.

account, how made up, v. 527. articles ofAmerican growth, & c., to be pre-

relief of distressed seamen , i. 256 ; ii. 204 , 651 .
to receive protest, &c . , i . 255 ; ii. 203.

ferred in purchases, v . 681.
expenditures of, limited to ordinary expenditures, v. 763.

in cases of wreck, i . 255.

of departments, annual statement, v. 25, 527.

fees of, i. 255, 256, 692 ; ii. 204 ; iii . 437, 737.

to be deposited, iii. 213.

certificates of goods by, iii. 733.

purchase of newspapers, &c. , from , v. 349.

counterfeiting certificate of, iii. 737 . giving false certificate punishable, iv. 773. jurisdiction over ships and seamen, v. 395. inspection of vessels alleged to be unsea-

stationery, &c., how contracted for, v. 526. Contraband of War,
treaty stipulations concerning, with Brazil, viii. 394.

worthy, v. 396.

Central America, viii. 330.

the commanding officer of vessels of war authorized to act as consul , where there

Chile, viii. 437. Ecuador, viii . 542.

is no resident consul, v. 725. may pay foreign postage, v. 750. marshals to execute process of, under French
treaty, i. 254. their copies of protests, &c. , to be evidence,
i. 255.

France, viii. 26, 184, 186. Great Britain, viii. 125. Mexico, viii. 418. Netherlands , viii. 38, 46. Peru-Bolivia, viii . 491 . Prussia, viii. 90, 168.

power respecting deserters. See Deserters, P. 47.
note of acts and decisions respecting, i. 254.

Spain, viii. 146. Sweden, viii. 64. Venezuela, viii. 474. Contracts, Public,

at London, allowance to, vi. 620.

members of congress forbidden to engage

treaty stipulations concerning the powers of consuls to reclaim deserters. See De-

in, ii. 484, 604. See Public Contracts, p. 143.

serters, p. 47.

Converce, Royal, to be released from a judgment

other treaty stipulations concerning, with

of United States, vi. 118.

Algiers, viii. 135, 226, 227, 246, 247. Converse, Daniel, allowance to, for a horse, vi.

Austria, viii. 400.

245.

Belgium, viii. 612.

John P., and another, payment to be

Brazil, viii . 396, 397.

made to, vi. 848.

Central America, viii. 334, 336.

Conviction, of crimes not to work corruption,

Chile, viii. 439 , 440 .

&c., i. 18, 117 .

GENERAL INDEX.

41

Conroy, provision as to, in iules of navy, i. 713 ; ii. 48. treaty stipulations concerning. See different treaties.
Conway, William, Heirs of, authorized to locate land, vi. 668.
Conyne, Peter, pension to, vi. 91. Cook, Alston, pension to, vi. 179.
David, pension granted to, vi. 6. James, allowance to, for supplies, vi. 344. Johnson, pension to, vi. 189. Jonah, pension allowed to, vi. 25.
increase of pension to, vi. 77. Lyman N., pension to, vi . 904. Medad, pension to, vi . 803. Peter, pension to, vi. 644. William, pension to, vi. 154. Cooke, Harris, and others, forfeitures to be refunded to, vi. 921 . Cooksey, Theophilus, allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 403 . Coolidge, Thomas B., payments to be refunded to, vi. 456.
Uriah, to be paid for expenses incurred by him , vi. 149. Coombe, Griffith, and another, to be paid for rent, vi. 784.
Coombs, Philip, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 388.
Cooper, Adam, pension to, vi. 364. David, to be paid for a house, vi. 301. James, land warrant to issue to, vi. 769. John, and others, judgments against, to
be held as security, vi. 429. " Joseph, to be paid for advances, vi . 622. Robert, allowed to enter certain lands,
v. 715.
Copeland, Captain Jesse, Heirs of, accounts of, to be settled, vi . 754.
Copies, of protests, &c. , before consuls, i. 255. of records of state department, i. 69. of records of old court of appeals, i . 279. of records of patent office , v. 191. of public accounts and papers in suits against officers of United States, i. 512, 594, 740 ; ii. 602 ; iii. 367. of records of the land office , ii . 717 ; iii. 721 ; v. 627.
Copp, Ebenezer, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Michael, allowance to, for a rifle, vi. 342.
Copper Mines, on Lake Superior, ii. 84, 87. Copyright of Books, &c.,
power of congress over, i. 14. regulations of, i. 124 ; ii. 171 ; iv. 436. jurisdiction at law over suits concerning, i.
125 ; ii. 172 ; iv. 437. deposit of the books, i. 125 ; iv. 437. pleas to suits, i. 126 ; iv. 438. limitation of suits, i. 125 ; ii . 172 ; iv. 439. repeal of acts of 1790, ch. 15, (vol . i. p. 124,)
and 1802, ch. 36, (vol. ii . 171 , ) iv . 439. jurisdiction of suits in equity, iii. 481. extended to twenty-eight years, iv. 436. renewable in certain cases for fourteen
years, iv. 436. infringement of, iv. 437. restricted to citizens, iv. 437.
publication of manuscripts without consent, i. 125 ; iv. 437.
limitation of actions, iv. 439.
extension of existing copyrights, iv. 439. VOL. VIII. 6

Copyright of Books, (continued.) false entry of copyright, iv. 438. deeds of transfer to be recorded, iv. 723. fees of clerks of courts, iv. 728.
Corben, Isaiah, pension to, vi . 82. Corder, Henry, payment to be made to, vi . 185. Core, John, allowance to, for a horse, vi. 887. Corl, Leonard, pension restored to, vi. 417. Corlis, John, duties remitted to, vi. 44. Corp, Samuel, drawbacks allowed to , vi. 53.
Corporal Punishment in army abolished, ii . 707, 735 ; v. 322.
Corporations, suable as garnishees by United States, iii. 443.
Correar, James, pension to, vi. 81. Correspondence,
with enemy, i. 712 ; ii. 366.
with foreign governments, i. 613. with pirates, i. 115. Corruption, of blood , taken away, i. 18, 119. Costs, regulations of, i. 92, 333 ; iii . 20. when plaintiff in circuit court recovers less
than $500, i. 83. where libellant on appeal recovers less than
$300, i. 83. on libels and seizures, iii. 19.
in suits for wrongful seizures of officers where there was probable cause, ii. 422 ; iii. 199.
on joint and several actions , iii. 19. on indictments and penal statutes, i. 277,
626.
when allowed informers, i. 626. vexatious, remedy for, iii. 21. double costs on writs of error, i . 85. on suits on marshal's bonds, ii. 373, 374. double, when allowed officers of customs,
i. 678 ; iii. 241, 397.
supreme court may make rules respecting, v. 518.
note of decisions, iii. 19. Cotheal, H. and D. , drawback allowed to, vi.
693.
and Hoff, drawback allowed to, vi. 812. Cotheall, Isaac, increase of pension , vi. 102. Cotton, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 90.
Daniel, allowance to, for detention of a
ship, vi. 80 . Couch, John, pension to, vi. 566. Coulon, Paul, duties on sales of prizes refund-
ed to, vi. 51. Counsel,
in civil causes, i. 92. in criminal causes, i. 118.
Counterfeiting, of current coin and public securities, power of congress over, i. 14. public securities, i. 115 ; iv. 119.
treasury notes, ii. 768, 803 ; iii . 102, 162, 215 ; iv. 119 ; v. 203.
certificates of enrolment, &c., i . 298, 316. sea letters, &c. , ii. 209. certificates of citizenship, ii . 811. documents in order to defraud the United
States, iii. 771 , 772. custom-house certificates, iii. 438 ; iv . 119. current coin, ii. 404 ; iv. 121. checks, notes, and orders, &c. , of Bank
of United States, i. 574 ; ii. 423 ; iii. 275, 276 .
bank plates of Bank of United States, iii 275.

42

GENERAL INDEX.

Counterfeiting, (continued .) consular certificates of imports, iii. 737. post-office stamps, v. 749. post-office franks, i. 238, 362, 733 ; ii. 600 ; iv. 110.
obsolete provisions for special cases, i. 209, 379, 531 ; ii. 41, 42.
Courtnay, John T., allowance to, vi. 164. Court of Appeals,
records of, to be deposited with clerk of supreme court, i. 279.
attested copies of, to be evidence , i. 279. Courts of United States,
for provisions respecting the different courts. See Supreme Court, p. 164. Cir-
cuit Courts, p. 29. District Courts, p. 50. Courts Martial, p. 42. Courts of Inquiry, p. 42. for provisions respecting process. See
Process, p. 142. for provisions respecting the judicial cir-
cuits and districts. See Judicial Circuits, p. 91 , and Judicial Districts, p. 91. as to allotment of circuits. See Allotment,
p. 5. general powers of, i. 76-83. equity powers, i. 82. See Equity, p. 60. removal in cases of contagious diseases, i.
620, 621.
adjournment of. See Adjournment, p. 1. to administer oaths, i. 83. to issue all proper writs, i. 81.
to issue writs of habeas corpus, i. 82 ; iv. 634 ; v. 539.
may order books and papers to be produced, i. 82.
process, in what districts served, i. 79. trials of fact by jury, &c. , i. 21 , 77, 80. new trials, how grantable, i. 83. contempts, how punishable, i. 83 ; iii. 395 ;
iv . 487.
evidence in equity cases, ii. 166.
by depositions in perpetuam, when admissible, ii. 632.
death of parties, proceedings on, and revivors, i. 90.
amendments in process and proceedings allowable, i. 91.
state laws, rules of decisions in, i. 92. counsel for parties, i. 92.
to make rules and orders. See Rules, p. 151 .
money deposited in court, how disposed of, iii. 127, 396.
forms and modes of proceeding in states admitted since 29th September, 1829, iv. 278-281 .
costs in. See Costs, p. 41 . contingent expenses of, i. 187, 217, 277. appropriations for support of. See Judi-
ciary, p. 90. Courts of Inquiry,
in army, ii. 370. in navy, ii. 51 . Courts Martial,
(1.) In Army. of whom composed, ii. 367. how convened, ii. 367 ; iv. 417. oath of members, ii. 368.
judge advocate of. See Judge Advocate , 90.
powers of, i. 485 ; ii. 367, 369, 371 .

Courts Martial, (continued.) sentences of, general, to be submitted to president, ii. 134 , 367 ; iv. 417. expenses and pay of members, ii. 136, 796. evidence before, ii. 363. hours of session , ii. 368.
votes, how given, ii. 368. behavior of members and of officers pres-
ent, ii. 368, 369. party accused entitled to copy of sentence
and proceedings, ii. 370.
(2.) In Navy. regulations of, i. 713, 714 ; ii. 50.
(3.) In Militia. regulations of, i. 264 , 425 ; ii. 797 ; iii. 134 regulations of, in the District of Columbia,
ii. 216.

Courts, Eleanor, payment to be made to, vi 542.
Couture, Jean Baptiste, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi . 411 .
Covenhoven, Peter, allowance for costs and expenditures, vi. 18.
Cowardice, in army, punishment of, i. 711 , 712 ; ii. 366, 369.

in navy, punishment of, ii. 46.
Cowper, John, allowance to, for prosecuting claims, vi. 660.
Coze, John Redman, duties refunded to, vi. 158. -, Joseph, pension to, vi. 24.
Crabb, Horatio N., to be paid for services, vi. 582.

Craddock, John H., appropriation to pay claim of, vi. 814.

Craighead, Robert, pension to, vi. 232. Crain, John, claim of, to be settled , vi . 334. Craine, Captain James, five years' full pay al-
lowed to heirs of, vi. 603.
Cramer, Charles, and others, forfeiture to be refunded to, vi. 603. Jacob, pension restored to, vi. 417. John, pension to, vi. 81.
Crampersey, John, increase of pension to, vi. 158. Cranch, William, appropriation for, iv. 457. Crane, Aaron, pension to, vi. 75.
Letitia, pension to, vi. 733. Orson, released from a judgment, vi. 770.

William, pension allowed to, vi . 26. Crapin, Samuel, pension allowed to, vi. 826.
Crary, Peter and John S. , and Company, allowed to complete entries for drawbacks, vi. 413.

Cravat, Richard, land claim confirmed to, vi. 246.
land certificate to issue to, vi. 727 .

Crawford, Ingoldsby W. , claims of, to be settled, vi. 843.

James, Jr., pension to, vi. 113.

to, vi. 128.

land purchase confirmed

vi. 43.

, grant of land to, ii. 101 ;

" duties to be repaid to, vi. 305.

Joel, and another, judgment against, to be opened, vi. 672.
" Mary, pension to, vi. 886. William, allowance to, vi. 174. -, patent issued to, to be cor..
· rected, vi . 664.

GENERAL INDEX .

43

Creamer, George, and others, forfeiture to be | Crimes and Offences, (continued .)

refunded to, vi. 693.

no person to be held to answer except on

Creek Indians,

indictment, i. 21.

treaty with, August 7, 1790, vii 35. treaty with, June 29, 1796, vii. 56. treaty with, June 16, 1832, vii. 63. convention with, November 14, 1805, vii.
96.

trial of, to be by jury, i. 21. conviction not to work corruption of blood,
i. 118.
dissection of bodies of criminals , i. 113. in arsenals, ii. 62.

articles of agreement and capitulation with, August 9, 1814 , vii. 120 .
treaty with, January 22, 1818, vii. 171. treaty with, January 8, 1921 , vii. 215 . articles of agreement with, January 8,
1821 , vii . 217. discharge of all claims on, vii. 217. convention with, February 12, 1825, vii. 237. treaty with, January 24, 1826, vii . 236. supplementary article to the treaty with,

Crittenden, Sevier, and Searcy, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.
Crittenton, Stephen, to be paid for land, vi. 623 Crocker, Jonathan, pension restored to, vi. 459. Crocket, Daniel H. , pension to, vi. 737.
-- Joseph, sureties of, released, vi. 350. Croghan, Colonel George, resolution presenting
gold medal to, iv. 792 ; v. 25. Croghansville, public lands in, iii. 696 ; v. 724 ,
vi. 276.

of January 24, 1826, March 31 , 1826, Croghansville, lots in, vested in commissioners

vii . 239.

of wood, &c., vi. 276.

articles of agreement with, November 15, 1827, vii. 307.
treaty with, March 24 , 1832, vii. 366. articles of agreement with, February 14,
1833, vii. 417. treaty with, November 23, 1838, vii. 574. to be paid for property destroyed, vi . 191 . appropriation for supplies to, vi . 813. lands ceded by treaty of August 9, 1814, to
be surveyed and sold, iii. 229. location of lands reserved , iii. 380.

Crombie, Jumes, pension allowed to , vi. 23. Cronk, alias Cronkite, Lois, pension to, vi . 911. Crook, Peter, to be paid for horses, vi. 252. Crookshanks, John, pension to, vi . 91 . Crosby, Dr. Eliakim , land patent to issue to, vi.
494.
John, and John, Jr., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 168.
" Nathan, pension to, vi. 190 . " Simon, pension to, vi. 25.
increase of pension to, vi. 93.

purchase of those lands, iii. 484 , 750 ; iv. | Cross, Thomas, allowed to enter certain lands,

36 .

v. 715.

act to carry into effect the treaty of Janu- Crouch, Dr. Hazel W., allowance to adminis

ary 8, 1821 , with, iv. 721.

trator of, vi. 763.

act to carry into effect the treaty of April 22, 1826, with, iv. 191.
sales of reserves in certain cases, v. 186, 256.
act to aid removal of, iv. 187. Creesy, Josiah P., and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 536. Creighton,, SJaemruemeila, h, payment to , vi . 185 .
Cremeens, Moses, pension to, vi. 543. Cress, George, pension to , vi . 91 . Cresy, Manuel, pension to, vi. 578.
Criers of Courts, appointment and pay of, i. 626.
Crimes and Offences. See particular heads.
General Acts punishing, i. 112 ; iv. 115 , 775.
trials of, in what court, i . 113. capital trials provided for, i. 118. indictments for, i. 21 , 116. standing mute, i. 119 ; iv. 118, 777.

-, Richard, increase of pension to, vi . 93. Crow, Albion T. , allowance to, for stable burnt,
vi. 704.
Crowell, Silvanus, allowance to, vi. 33. Thomas, pension to, vi. 24.
Crow Indians, treaty of August 4 , 1825, with, vii. 266.
Crowninshield, Benjamin W., lost certificates to be renewed to, vi. 142.
Cruger, Henry N., and another, to be paid for a slave , vi. 920.
Crum, Tobias, authorized to exchange land, vi. 680.
Crummet, James, increase of pension to, vi. 114.
Crumpersey, John , increase of pension to , vi. 158 .
Crute, John, pension to, vi. 82. claim of, to be settled, vi. 276
Cruzat, Anthony, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 186. Antoine, donation of land to, vi. 584.

limitations of prosecutions for, i. 119.

Cruzatte, Pier, land warrant to be issued to, vi.

punishment of death, how inflicted, i. 119.

65.

punishment to hard labor in state prison, iv. 118 , 739, 777.
convicts where to be sent and how treated, iv. 118, 739, 777 ; v. 385.
who may arrest and hold to bail for, i. 91 . what bailable , i . 91. in District of Columbia. See District of

Crygier, Simon , pension to, vi. 364. Cuba,
remission of the penalty for bringing slaves from, authorized, ii. 549.
tonnage duties on vessels from, iv . 741 . Culbertson, John, to be paid for services, iv. 492 ,
vi. 467.

Columbia, p. 51 . whipping abolished, v. 322, 517. using or loaning public funds, v. 389,
439.
remission of penalties of forfeited recog nizances, v . 322.

Cullins, John, pension to, vi. 612. Cullumber, Joshua, allowance to, for a schoon-
er, vi. 627.
Cultivation, of tropical plants. See Vine and Olive, p. 174.
Culver, Dan, increase of pension to, vi . 101

excessive punishments forbidden , i. 21 .

" Daniel, pension allowed to, vi. 3.

44

GENERAL INDEX .

Cumberland Road,
laying out and construction of, ii. 357, 661 ; iii. 604 ; iv. 123, 351 , 649, 772.
commissioners to be appointed, ii. 357 ; iii. 604 ; iv . 128.
surrendered on certain conditions to the
states through which it passes, iv. 681. superintendents of, iii . 728 ; iv. 128, 228,
351, 364, 427, 469, 557.
assent to act of Ohio respecting, iv. 483. assent to act of Virginia respecting, iv . 681 . assent to acts of Pennsylvania and Mary.
land, iv. 553, 554. appropriations for, ii. 359, 524, 555, 661 ,
690, 730, 829 ; iii . 206 , 282, 426, 500, 605, 728 ; iv. 128, 151 , 215, 228, 275, 351, 352, 363, 427, 469, 553, 649, 680, 681, 693, 777 ; v. 71 , 72, 195, 196, 228. work on, to be done by war departinent, iv. 557, 681.
note of acts respecting, ii. 357. Cummings, David, accounts of, to be settled, vi.
269.
Joseph, and others, bond of, to be cancelled, vi. 376.
Cummings, John, purchase money to be refunded to, vi. 671 .
Cunningham, Hezekiah, to be paid for carrying the mail, vi. 864. Jesse, pension to, vi. 543.
Cure, Louis, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.
Currell, Kilshaw, and Company, allowed to complete entries, vi. 413.
Currency. See Coins, p. 32. Currin, Edward, pension to, vi . 417. Curry, Robert, Curtis, Josiah, pension to, vi. 656.
William, increase of pension to, vi. 83. Curtiss, William, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Cushing, Major, allowance to, i . 557. Cushing, Thomas, fishing bounty allowed to,
vi. 714, 789. William, pension to, vi. 111.
Cushman, Obed, pension to, vi. 417. Customs, officers of the.
(1.) General Regulations. (2.) Collectors. (3.) Naval Officers. (4.) Surveyors. (5.) Inspectors. (6.) Weighers and Gaugers. (7.) Other Officers.
(1.) General Regulations, as to term of office, iii . 582. term of office not to commence until bonds
given , v. 661 . as to oaths of, i. 44, 171 , 640. power to board vessels, i. 164, 668. power to search, i. 677.
may raise the posse comitatus, iii. 197, 233. provisions as to suits against, i . 678 ;
iii. 233, 396. to execute instructions of secretary of the
treasury , v. 566. penalty for receiving bribes, i. 695. table of fees to be kept, i. 680. penalty for extortion , i. 680 ; iii . 696.
fees not to be affected by tariff of 1832, iv. 638, 698, 771 ; v. 113, 175, 265 , 431 .
quarterly account of receipts and expenses, i. 708 ; iv. 699, 771 ; v. 113, 175, 265, 432.

Customs, (continued. ) limitation of number of, iv. 771 ; v. 8, 115, 696.
(2.) Collectors, appointment of, (obsolete,) i . 29, 145 ; (in
force,) i . 627 to 640 ; and see the acts creating collection districts .
pay of, (obsolete,) i . 44 , 171 , 172, 274, 336, 337, 416, 502 ; (in force, ) i. 706 ; ii. 72, 172, 300, 337, 694, 695 ; v . 264 , 265, 432.
commissions of, how divided with succes-
sor, i. 275, 709.
duties of, generally, (obsolete, ) i . 36, 37, 154 ; (in force,) i. 642.
deputies of, i. 37, 155, 644, 699 ; iii. 397, 681, 695.
bonds of, (obsolete,) i . 44, 171 ; (in force,) i. 705 ; v . 661 .
oath of, i. 154, 641 .
certificates of citizenship by, i . 477. to return lists of seamen registered quarter-
ly, i. 478. certain collectors to deposit duty bonds for
collection, ii. 72. to be allowed certain sums paid to fisher
men before December 31 , 1807, ii. 552. to keep statistical accounts, iii. 542, 543. to render account of emoluments and ex-
penses, i. 708 ; iii. 695 ; iv. 699, 771 ; v. 113, 175.
clerks of, i. 708 ; iii. 347, 432, 695. disposition of money paid under protest, v.
348, 727.
fees of, for particular acts. See the respective titles.
(3.) Naval Officers, duties of, (obsolete,) i . 37, 154 ; (in force,)
i. 642. pay of, (obsolete, ) i. 44, 171 , 417, 503 ; (in
force,) i. 706, 708 ; ii. 172 ; iii. 695, 696 ; v. 265, 432. deputy of, i. 155, 644. appointment of, iii. 582.
(4.) Surveyors, duties of, (obsolete, ) i. 37, 154. pay of, (obsolete,) i . 44, 171 , 274, 417, 503,
596 ; (in force,) i. 705 ; ii. 72, 173 ; iii. 695, 696 ; v. 265, 432.
deputies of, i. 155, 644. to be appointed for Marblehead, ii. 301 . authorized to enrol and license vessels fu
coasting trade and fisheries, iv. 372. salary of surveyor at Camden reduced, v.
610 .
appointment of. See acts establishing collection districts.
(5.) Inspectors, duties of, i. 40, 41 , 667, 668. pay of, i. 45, 172, 503, 707 ; iii. 306 ; v.
696.
appointment of, iii. 197, 233, 695 ; v. 696, 801 .
(6.) Weighers, Gaugers, &c. duties of, i. 642, 678. pay of, i. 45, 707 ; iii. 306.
(7.) Other Officers, appraisers, iii. 735, 736. Custom- Houses, appropriations for, at
Bath, v. 25, 717. Boston, iv. 769 ; v. 25, 169 , 346, 379,
428, 485 , 596, 640, 761. Castine, iv. 627.

GENERAL INDEX .

45

Custom- Houses, (continued .)

Dash, John B., duties to be refunded to, vi. 826.

Frenchman's Bay, iv. 716. Key West, iv. 627, 697.

Dartmoor Prison, England, pension to persons wounded, and to widows and children of

Middletown, iv. 627, 697.

those killed at, vi . 160.

Mobile, iv. 398 ; v. 640. New Bedford, iv. 697 ; v. 24, 379. Newburyport, iv. 627, 697. New London, iv . 628, 697 ; v. 379.

D'Auterive, Marigny, allowance to, for wood taken, vi. 411.
Davenport, George, authorized to enter certain land, vi . 908.

New Orleans, ii. 418 ; iii . 602 ; iv . 697.

"" James, pension of, to be paid to representatives of, vi. 431.

Newport, iv. 297. New York, iv. 574 ; v. 24, 346, 379,
428, 485.

Jonathan, pension to, vi. 24.
Thomas, five years ' full pay allowed to heirs of, vi. 518.

Norfolk, iv. 767. Philadelphia, v. 406.

Davezac, Auguste, to be paid for services, vi. 814 .

Portland, iv. 382.

Davidson, Eliza, real estate of, how to be dis-

Savannah, v. 761.

posed of, vi. 809.

Wilmington, v. 634.

9 Elizabeth, pension to, vi. 802.

Cutler, Lieutenant- Colonel Enos, expenses and costs of suit of, to be paid, vi . 438. Jervis, pay of captain allowed to, vi. 143.
Joseph, increase of pension to, vi . 140.

Francis, pension to, vi. 75. James, pension restored to, vi . 417. John, duties remitted to, vi. 3.
" to be paid for a lost certificate, vi. 71.

Cutting, John Brown, vi. 10.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 123.

Cyane, Frigate, to be rebuilt, iv. 570, 752. D.

Joshua, pension allowed to, vi. 33. Lewis Grant, name of, changed, vi . 97.
real estate of, how to

Dabney, John B., to be paid for advancements , vi. 211.

be disposed of, vi. 809. Samuel C., appropriation for, v. 633.

Daboll, John, pension to, vi. 81. Daffon, George, bounty arrearages, &c., of, to
be paid, vi. 357.

Weld, and Beebee, payment to, vi. 71.
William, account of, to be settled, vi. 318 .

Dagget, Tristram, pension to, vi. 417.

Daviess, James, to be paid for services, vi. 473.

Daigre, Francis, land claim confirmed to, vi. | Davis, Asa, pension to, vi. 927.

526.

Daniel, land patent granted to , vi. 350.

Dal, John, pension to, vi. 650.

to be paid for a mare lost, vi. 708.

Dale, Richard, allowance to, for sea stores, vi. 127.

Edward G., allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Samuel, allowance to, for services, vi. 322.
accounts of, to be settled, vi. 503.

Henry, $47.70 to be paid to , vi. 223. Jonathan, penalty remitted to, vi. 133.
allowance to, in full, for prop-
erty destroyed, vi. 707.

Dalliez, Maria I., grant of land to, vi . 35. Dalley, Gifford, to be paid for services, i. 105.

-, Joseph, Mother of, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 582.

Daly, John, to be paid for services, &c., vi. 456.

Robert C., pension to, vi. 179. " Thomas Lamar, pension to, vi. 73.

Damages,

William, and others, letters patent al-

in actions on bonds, how assessed, i . 87.

lowed to , vi. 435.

to property, compensation for. See Property, p. 142.

C., allowed to enter certain lands, v . 715.

Dameron, George B., to be paid for extra ser-

vices, vi. 468.

927.

R., to be paid for services , vi.

Dana, Josiah, to indemnify, vi. 175. Danforth, Henry, pension allowed to , vi. 23.
Joseph, pension allowed to, vi. 652.

Davison, Bracket, pension to , vi. 179.
Darlin, John, authorized to enter land, vi. 758, 901 .

Joshua, credits to be allowed in set- Dauphin, Jane, forfeiture to be refunded to, vi.

tlement of accounts of, vi. 264.

551 .

Daniel, Henry, claim against, to be compro- Daw, John, pension to, vi. 655.

mised, vi. 874. Daniels, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 139.

Daws, Mary, grant of preemption right to, vi. 527.

Job, pension to, vi. 654.

Dawson, George, account of, to be settled, vi.

Danish Consul, at Tripoli, thanks of congress

662.

to, ii. 410. Danks, Isaac, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.

James L., balance to be paid to, vi. 513 .

Dardin, David, Heirs of, allowance to, for a

John, Representatives of, authorized to

certificate, vi. 495.

enter land in lieu of land taken, vi . 783.

Darling, Henry, duties to be repaid to, vi . 241 . -, moiety of a forfeiture to be

" Joshua, continued in office, vi 1 . resolve as to account cf, i . 98.

paid to, vi. 635. --, Oliver, pension allowed to, vi. 25.

Day, Charles, exempted from duties or certain articles, vi. 739.

increase of pension to, vi. 115. Dayton, Steamboat, appropriation for services

Darnell, Spencer, pension to, vi. 153.

of, vi. 813.

46

GENERAL INDEX .

Dean, James, pension allowed to, vi. 23. Lemuel, increase of pension to, vi. 77.
Deane, Silas, account of, to be settled , vi. 857. Dearborn, Benjamin, and others, moneys to be
refunded to, vi. 456.
Dearborn, Mount, value of, to be assessed, iv. 365.
De Armas, Joseph, land claim confirmed to, vi . 500.
De Armos, Bartole, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.
Deas, A. H., allowance to, for services, vi. 661 . Death,
punishment of, how inflicted, i. 119. of parties in suits, provided for, i . 90. Debasement, of coins, i . 250 ; iv. 122.
Debates, Elliot's, appropriation for distribution of, v. 171 .
De Bealeau, appropriation for, ii. 120. De Bellevue, F. B. , pension to, vi. 873. Debentures,
collection of, i. 680, 687, 688. See Drawbacks, p. 54.
assignment of, i. 688. on loaf sugar and distilled spirits, when pay-
able by collectors, iii. 338, 640. Debevere, Francis Suzor, adjustment of account
of, and pay, vi. 7. Debouchelle and Chalaire, land claim confirmed
to, vi. 500. Debt. See Public Debt, p. 144. Debtors, Poor. See Poor Debtors, p. 135. De Buys, William, to be reimbursed for ex-
penses , vi. 884.
De Cump, Morris, increase of pension to, vi. 115. De Castinado, John, accounts of, to be settled,
vi. 193.
Decatur, James, regret of congress for loss of, ii. 347.
Decatur, Stephen, reward for valor, ii. 346, 830. Decatur, Susan, pension to, v. 199 ; vi . 700.
Decker, Sarah, pension to, vi. 834. Declaration of Independence, i. 1 . Decrees, in equity,
form of, i. 89. lien of, v. 338, 393.
Decrits, Joseph, pay of sergeant allowed to, vi. 325.
Dedimus Potestatem. See Depositions, p. 47. Defalcation ,
no money to be paid to defaulters, iv. 246. the above provision not to apply to pension-
ers, v . 31.
Defects in Form, not to constitute matter of abatement, i. 91 .
Defrees, Henry J., released as surety of J. B. Fanning, vi. 837.
De Glaubeck, Baron, pay of captain allowed to, vi. 1.
De Graffe, John J. , and another, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 586.
De Grasse, Count, grant of money for the daughters of, vi. 19, 31.
De Haas, Brigadier- General, adjustment of account of, vi. 7.
Dejean, Nicholas, land claim confirmed to, vi. 498.
De Krafft, Frederick C., claim of, to be settled , vi. 683.
De la Carera, M., grant of land confirmed to, vi. 673.
De la Houssuye, Louis, land title confirmed to heirs of, vi 360.

Delany, John R., amount of a judgment to be paid to, vi. 879.
Sharp, estate formerly owned by, to be sold, iii. 641.
Delapierre, Bartholomew, pension to, vi. 515. Delaplaine, John F. and Elijah P. , fishing
bounty allowed to, vi. 330.
De la Ronde, Pierre Dennis, to be paid for damage to property, vi. 260.
Delassus, Don Carlos Dehault, to be paid for moneys taken from him, vi. 513. interest allowed to, vi. 672.
Delaware, State of, payment of interest due her, iv. 175.
Delaware Indians,
treaty with, September 17, 1778, vii. 13. treaty with, January 21 , 1785, vii. 16. treaty with, January 9, 1789, vii. 28. treaty with, August 3, 1795, vii. 49. treaty with, June 7, 1803, vii. 74. treaty with, August 18, 1804 , vii . 81 . treaty with, July 4, 1805, vii . 87. treaty with, August 21 , 1805, vii. 91 . treaty with, September 30, 1809, vii. 113. separate articles with the Miamies and Eel
Rivers, forming a part of the treaty of September 30, 1809, with the Delawares, &c., vii. 115.
treaty with, July 22, 1814 , vii. 118. treaty with, September 8, 1815, vii. 131 . treaty with, September 29, 1817, vii . 160 . treaty with, October 3, 1818, vii. 188. articles of agreement with, August 3, 1829,
vii. 326.
supplemental articles to the treaty with, of October 3, 1818, September 24, 1829, vii. 327.
treaty with, October 26, 1832, vii . 397. reservation of land för, ii . 448. sale of said reservation, iii. 575. Delaware, Fort, Officers, &c., of, to be paid for losses by fire at, vi . 512. Delawder, Isaac, authorized to enter land, vi. 362.
Delegates to Congress, election of, provided for generally, iii. 363. may speak, but not vote, iii. 363. pay of, ii. 130 ; iii. 404. from Alabama, iii. 373. from Arkansas, iii. 495. from Florida, iii. 659, 754. from Illinois, ii. 742. from Indiana, ii. 525, 659. from Iowa, v. 240. from Michigan, iii. 482. from Mississippi, ii. 455, 563. from Missouri, ii. 746, 747 ; iii. 363. from Wisconsin, v. 15.
Delesdernier, Lewis F., grant of land to , ii. 101 ; vi. 43.
William, arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 736.
Delight, Schooner, goods imported in, allowed to be exported, vi. 19. drawback allowed on cargo of, i. 416.
Delino, Ignace Chalmet, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 186.
Delinquent Debtors. See Poor Debtors, p. 135. Delisle, Anthony S., forfeiture remitted to, vi
240.
Deloach, Simon, pension to, vi . 577.

GENERAL INDEX .

47

De Lusser, Madum, Heirs of, lands confirmed to , vi. 887.
Delzell, William, pension allowed to, vi. 463. Demarest, Peter, pension to, vi. 67.
D., increase of pension to, vi. 93 .
Deming, John J., accounts of, to be settled , iii . 770. payment to, iv. 261.
De Neufville, John, $3000 granted to widow and children of, vi. 29.
Demopolis Female Academy, right to enter certain lands, v. 155.
Demurrers, for form, to be special, & c ., i . 91. Denford, William, allowed to enter certain
land, v . 715 . Denison, Isaac, allowance to, vi. 173.
Leonard, to be indemnified for damages, vi. 482 .
Denmark, commissioners under treaty with, iv. 446 .
Dennett, John, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 372. Dennie, William, pension to, vi . 179 . Dennin, Simeon, pension to, vi . 926. Denning, Isaac, and others, duties to be refund-
ed to, vi. 833 .
Dennis, Thomas, land patents to issue to, vi. 483 . Dennison, Christopher, pension to, vi. 723.
9 Prince, pension to , vi. 25. Dennistoun, A. and J., and Company, deben-
ture certificates to be refunded to, vi. 668. Denny, Penelope, pension to, vi . 342.
, Thomas, penalties remitted to, vi. 122. Denslow, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi .
85.
Denton, Gabriel W., and others, discharged from a note, vi . 665. Little, and Company, duties to be refunded to , vi. 237.
Departments, Establishment and Regulations of. See Foreign Affairs, p. 65. Navy Department, p. 122. Post Office Depart-
ment, p. 137. State Department, p. 162. Treasury Department, p. 170. War Department, p. 176. names of clerks , & c ., employed in , to be annually reported , v . 525. annual reports of expenditures to be made to congress, v. 25.
provision for temporary absence of heads of, i. 281 , 415.
office hours in, v. 112.
De Peyster, William, and another, to be paid for a slave, vi. 920.
Deposit, of goode for duties, i . 674 ; ii . 471 , 472 ; iii. 469, 470. of money in court, regulated, iii. 127, 395. of money by officers of congress, iii. 213. of goods in public warehouses, iii . 469. embezzlement of, punished , iii . 470. of ships' papers with American consuls, ii. 203 .
of foreign ships ' papers with foreign consuls, iii. 362.
Deposits of the Public Money, general regulation of--- secretary of the treasury to select banks in the different states and territories , v. 52. where there is no bank, or all refuse, may
select one at some adjacent place, v. 52. banks to furnish statements, v. 53.

Deposits ofthe Public Money, (continued.) terms to be agreed to by banks, v. 53. banks issuing notes less than five dollars
not to be selected, v. 53, 255.
secretary may require security, v. 53. discontinuance of deposit in any bank, v. 54. secretary authorized to enter into contracts
with said banks, v. 54. secretary to lay before congress annual
statement, v. 54. transfers in certain cases declared illegal,
v. 55, 115, 116. surplus in treasury to be deposited with the
several states, v. 55. proportions in which deposits with the
states to be made, v. 55. money to be withdrawn from former de-
posit banks, v. 206. deposit act of 1840, (sub -treasury,) v. 385 ;
repealed, v . 439. Depositions,
under what circumstances they may be
taken, i. 88, 89. mode of taking, i. 89. by whom to be taken , i. 88 ; iii. 350. witness, how compelled to appear, i . 89 ;
iv. 197-199. not to be used unless it is shown that the
witness cannot be had, i. 90. dedimus potestatem , i . 90.
depositions in perpetuam, i. 90 ; ii. 682. taken in state courts, ii. 682. subpoena duces tecum, iv. 199. in cases of contested elections, i. 537.
appointment of commissioners to take depositions, ii. 679-682 ; iii. 350.
Deputies, of district attorneys authorized, iii. 244. provision for absence of heads of departments, i. 281 , 415. of collectors, &c. See Customs, Officers, of the, p. 44. of marshals. See Marshals, p. 110.
Depuy, Daniel, pension to , vi. 418. Dequindre, Antoine, and another, released from
bonds, vi. 469. " allowance to, vi. 475.
Derbanne, Pierre S., authorized to enter land, vi. 926.
Derry, James, accounts and pay of, vi. 4. Desbrow, Erastus, pension to, vi. 176. Descent,
of rights under the act for the armed occupation of Florida, v. 503.
no attainder of treason to work corruption of blood, i. 18, 118.
Desdorty, John B., debentures to be paid to, vi. 187 .
Deserters and Desertion, from the army, punishment of, ii. 362. deserters may be compelled to serve out their time, ii . 136 , 673 , 796. advising desertion, ii. 136. in time of peace , offence not capital, iv . 418 . from the navy,
punishment of, i. 712, 713 ; ii. 47 enticing desertion, ii. 47. from American vessels ,
punishment of, i . 132. penalty for harboring, i. 132 apprehension of, i. 134

48

GENERAL INDEX .

Deserters and Desertion, (continued .)
consuls may reclaim, abroad, v. 395. from foreign vessels,
from French vessels , iv. 160 . general provision to carry out treaty
stipulations concerning, iv. 359. treaty stipulations respecting, with
Belgium, viii. 612. Brazil, viii. 397. Bremen, viii. 386. Central America, viii . 336. Chile, viii. 440. China, viii. 598. Colombia, viii. 318. Ecuador, viii . 548.
France , viii . 112, 280. Greece, viii. 504. Hamburg, viii. 386. Hanover, viii. 556. Hanseatic Republic, viii. 386. Lubeck, viii. 386. Mexico, viii. 424. Peru-Bolivia, viii . 494. Portugal, viii. 566 . Prussia, viii . 382. Russia, viii . 448. Sardinia, viii . 520. Spain, viii. 262. Sweden, viii. 352. Venezuela, viii . 480.
Deshields, Joseph, forfeiture to be refunded to, vi. 714.
Deslonde, Rosalie P., to be paid for damage to houses, vi. 258.
Desobry, Benjamin , debentures to issue to, vi. 307.
Despatch, British Brig, duties on, to be refunded, vi. 747.
Destroying, ships corruptly, ii. 290. conspiracy for, iv. 122.
Detention of Letters. See Post- Office, p. 137. De Torres, Francisco, land claim confirmed to,
vi. 498.
Detroit, Town of, adjustment of land titles in, ii . 388 ; v. 541 . copies of report of commissioners of land
titles to be made out and recorded , iv. 413.
sale of military reservations in and dispositions of proceeds, iv. 551 .
residue of property vested in, v. 542. building for courts and post- office in, v.
649 .
De Van Brun, Ann Levacher, allowance to, vi . 785.
Dever, William M., authorized to enter land , vi. 343.
Deverges, L. P. , claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 186 .
Deviene, M., to receive seven months' pay , vi . 225 .
Devlin, John S., accounts of, to be settled , vi . 536. 1 allowance to, for services, vi .
660.
Devoe, John, pension to , vi. 67. increase of pension to, vi. 77.
Devourix, James, pension to, vi. 178. Dewees, Sarah, and Heirs of William , $8000 to
be paid to , vi . 207. Dewey, Ebenezer, pension to, vi . 653. Dewitt, James, pension to, vi. 364.
-, William, pension to, vi . 26.

Dexter, Daniel S. , to be discharged from prison, vi. 66.
" Samuel, advance of money to, ii. 152. Diana, Ship, restored to rights of a sea letter
vessel, vi. 267.
Dibble, Israel, pension to, vi . 25. increase of pension to, vi. 114,
124.
Orange H., claim of, to be examined, vi. 700.
Dibrel, Alzira, land title confirmed to, vi. 267. Dick, Samuel, final certificate of, to be received,
and patent to issue to, vi . 169.
Dickerson, Samuel, authorized to enter land, vi. 756.
Dickey, David, grant of land to, ii. 712. " Milus W., claim of, to be settled, vi . 923. · Robert, debenture to be paid to, vi. 704.
Dickins, Henry, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi . 409.
Dickson, Ephraim D., to be paid for horse-shoeing, vi. 920. James, and Company, proceeds of forfeited goods allowed to, vi. 350. Robert, sureties of, exempted from imprisonment, vi. 272. William, scrip to issue to, for payments on land forfeited, vi. 508.
Dicy, Samuel, pension to, vi . 882. Dietz, Johan Jost, pension to, vi . 732. Digest of Commercial Regulations, appropriation
for, iv. 769 ; v. 24. Dillon , John, moneys to be refunded to, vi.
212 .
Josiah, payment to be made to, vi. 923. Dimanche, Succession of, land claim confirmed
to, vi. 499 .
Dimick, Peter, pension to, vi. 644. Diminishing Coin, penalty for, iv. 122. Dingman, Gerardus, pension to, vi. 92. Dinsmore, Robert, pension to , vi. 364. Diplomatic Correspondence,
with France to be published and distributed, i. 612.
of the revolution, publication of, iii. 475. appropriations for, iv. 382. distribution of, iv . 407, 669 ; v. 171.
between 1783 and 1789, publication of, iv. 513.
appropriation for, iv. 513, 689. distribution of, iv. 743 ; v. 171 . Direct Tax. See Tures, p. 167. Disability, of judges of district court provided for, i. 278, 279, 334 ; ii . 534 ; iii . 643.
of judges of circuit court provided for, . 322.
of president and vice-president, i . 240. Disbursement of Public Money,
advances how made, iii. 723. agents for, ii. 536 . quarterly accounts to be rendered, iii. 723. other provisions, iii . 723, 724. Discharge, from the army, how obtained, ii. 361. of poor debtors. See Poor Debtors, p. 135 . of bankrupts. See Bankruptcy, p. 12. Discriminating Duties on Goods, general provisions for an additional duty
on all goods imported in foreign vessels , i. 27, 181 , 260, 391 , 411 , 504 ; ii. 84, 299, 768 ; iii. 313, 459, 460 ; iv. 29, 592 ; v. 561 .

GENERAL INDEX .

49

Discriminating Duties, &c. , (continued.) acts exempting the vessels of nations which have made a reciprocal exemption, iii. 224, 510 ; iv. 2, 308.
provisions respecting goods imported in the vessels of
Austria, iv. 814, 816. Belgium, v. 152. Bremen, iii. 510, and App. 3 ; iv. 2. Cayenne, v. 489. Colombia, iv. 154, 515. France, iii. 642, 747. Great Britain, iii. 377 ; iv. 817.
Hamburg, iii. 510, and App. 3 ; iv. 2, 228.
Hanover, iv. 816. Hanseatic Cities, iv. 2. Lubeck, iii. App. 4 ; iv. 2. Martinique and Guadaloupe, iv. 269. Netherlands, iii. 464 ; iv. 2. Norway, iii. App. 4 ; iv. 2, 206. Oldenburg, iii. App. 5 ; iv. 2, 815. Portugal, v. 125. Prussia, iii. 510 ; iv. 2, 308. Russia, iv. 2. Sardinia, iv. 2. Sweden, iv. 206. treaty stipulations concerning. See Reciprocity, p. 145. Discriminating Duties on Vessels, general acts imposing, i. 135 ; ii.769 ; iii. 344. provision for removal as to vessels of reciprocating nations, iii . 224 ; iv. 2, 308, 425. provisions as to vessels, particular nations , Austria, iv. 814, 816. Belgium, v. 152.
Bremen, iii. 510, and App. 3 ; iv. 2. Cayenne, v. 489. Colombia, iv. 154, 515. France, iii. 605, 641 , 747 ; iv. 576. Great Britain, iii. 377 ; iv. 817. Hamburg, iii. 510, and App. 3 ; iv. 2,
228.
Hanover, iv. 816. Hanseatic Cities, iv. 2.
Lubeck, iii. App. 4 ; iv. 2. Martinique and Guadaloupe, iv. 269. Netherlands, iii. 464 ; iv. 2. Norway, iii. App. 4 ; iv. 2, 206. Oldenburg, iii. App. 5 ; iv. 2, 815. Portugal, v. 125. Prussia, iii. 510 ; iv. 2, 308. Russia, iv. 2. Sardinia, iv. 2. Spain, iv. 578, 741. Sweden, iv. 206. for treaty stipulations respecting. See Reciprocity, p. 145. Dismal Swamp Canal, authorized to retain certain dividends, vi. 936. subscription to stock in, iv. 169, 350. Dissection of Criminals, provision for, i. 113. Distillers, duties on. See Duties, Internal, p. 55. in Pennsylvania, duties to be refunded to, vi. 264.
Berks County, duties to be refunded to, vi. 291. Distress, Treasury, against debtors, iii. 592. Distribution, of the laws. See Laws, p. 100. of public documents. See Public Docu-
ments, p. 144. VOL. VIII. 7

District Attorneys,
in territories, ii. 806. term of office, iii . 582.
appointment generally, i. 92 ; ii . 164. of deputies of, iii. 244. in Alabama, iii. 565 ; iv. 10. in Arkansas, v. 51. in District of Columbia, ii. 106. in Florida, iii. 656, 752 ; iv. 292 ; v. 788 .
in Illinois, iii. 503. in Indiana, iii. 391. in Iowa, v. 238, 789. in Louisiana, ii. 703. in Michigan, v. 62. in Mississippi, iii. 413 ; v. 211 , 248. in Missouri, iii. 653. in New York, (northern district,) iii.
235.
in Ohio, ii. 201, 202. in Pennsylvania, (western district,)
iii. 463.
in Tennessee , i. 496 ; ii . 165 ; v. 250. in Virginia, (western district,) iii. 479. in Wisconsin, v. 15. compensation of, general provision, i. 93,277,625 ; iv. 469. in Alabama, iii. 565 ; iv. 10. in Arkansas, v. 51.
in Connecticut, i. 625 ; iii. 133 ; iv. 8. in District of Columbia, ii. 106. in Florida, iii. 656, 753 ; iv. 292 ; v.
485, 788.
in Georgia, i. 625, 626. in Illinois, iii. 503. in Indiana, iii. 391. in lowa, v. 238, 789. in Kentucky, i . 625, 626. in Louisiana, ii. 703. in Maine, i. 625, 626. in Massachusetts, iii. 133 ; iv. 8. in Michigan, v. 62. in Mississippi, iii. 413 ; v. 248. in Missouri, iii. 653. in New Hampshire, i. 625, 626. in New York, iii. 133, 235 ; iv. 8. in New Jersey, i 625, 626. in Ohio, ii. 202. in Pennsylvania, iii. 133, 463 ; iv. 8. in Rhode Island , i. 625 ; iii. 133 ; iv. 8. in Tennessee, i. 496, 625 ; ii . 165 ; v.
250.
in Vermont, i. 625, 626. in Virginia, i. 625, 626 ; iii. 479. in Wisconsin, v. 14. for travelling expenses, i. 216, 277. when bonds for duties are renewed, v.
204. limitation of, v. 427, 483. account of fees to be rendered, v. 483. no person to be paid who neglects to
render accounts, v. 764. duties of,
generally, i. 92. to render an account of prizes, iii. 288. to render an account of all judgments
in suits to which the United States
are parties, iii. 596. to receive instructions from the solicit-
or of the treasury, and report when requested by him, iv. 415. in suits under the post-office laws, to obey instructions ofthe auditor, v. 83.

50

GENERAL INDEX.

District Attorneys, (continued . ) in Mississippi, to attend the commissioners under treaty with the Choctaws, v. 181.
to give the attorney-general assistance and information respecting the public property in their respective districts, v. 468.
District Courts,
acts obsolete , ii . 89, 132.
(1. ) Organization and pay of. generally, i. 73, 74 ; ii. 132 ; v. 176. in Alabama, iii . 564.
two districts, iv. 9, 434, 444 ; v. 177, 210, 315, 504.
in Arkansas, v. 51 , 147, 177. in District of Columbia. See that title, p.
51 .
in Florida, v. 788. in Illinois, iii . 502 ; iv. 444 ; v. 177, 788. in Indiana, iii . 390 ; iv. 444 ; v. 177, 788. in Iowa, v. 789. in Kentucky, i. 77, 78, 396. in Louisiana, ii. 703 , 743 ; iii . 602 ; iv. 62,
444 ; v. 177, 722, 726. two districts in, iii. 774, 775.
in Maine, i. 78, 79, 80 ; iii. 554. in Michigan, v. 61 , 178. in Mississippi, ii. 301 ; iii. 413 ; iv. 444 ; v.
177, 247, 317.
in Missouri, iii . 653 ; iv . 55, 444 ; v. 177,788. in New Hampshire, i. 352. in New York, two districts, ii. 719 ; iii. 120,
235, 254, 318, 392, 413, 774 ; iv. 192, 422, 444 ; v. 177, 295, 338, 506. in North Carolina, i. 126, 396. in Ohio, ii . 201 , 420 ; v. 788 . in Orleans territory , ii. 285. in Pennsylvania, two districts, iii. 462, 478, 598 ; iv. 50, 444 ; v. 177. in Rhode Island , i . 128. in South Carolina , two districts, iii. 726. in Tennessee, i. 496, 617 ; ii. 421 , 477 ; iii.
661 . two districts in, ii . 165, 421 ; v. 249,
313, 392, 472, 488. in Virginia, two districts, iii . 478 ; iv. 48,
180 ; v. 177, 215, 534, 547, 597. (2.) Jurisdiction and Powers.
general provision , i . 76, 77 ; iii. 245. may issue all necessary writs, i . 81 . appeals from. See Appeals, p. 5. may bind over to keep the peace, i. 609. respecting wrecked French vessels , i. 254. under neutrality act, v. 213. interpreter for, in Louisiana, iv. 492. adjournment of, i . 76 ; ii . 291 . in case of pensions. See Pensions, p. 130. in cases of debentures, i. 688, 689. in cases of naturalization . See Naturaliza-
tion, p. 119. in cases of bankruptcy, ii . 19, 164 ; v . 440,
614.
in cases of injunctions , ii. 418 ; iii. 595. under the slave-trade acts, i . 349 ; ii. 70,
426, 427. issues of fact, how tried, i. 77. of injunctions to treasury warrants, iii.
595.
in cases of piracy , iii. 513, 789. in cases of captures, i . 384, 574 ; ii . 761 ;
iii. 288, 449. in cases of prize proceeds, iii . 288.

District Courts, (continued.) removal in cases of contagious sickness, i. 621.
respecting summons of grand juries, ii. 167 ; iv. 188.
special juries in, ii. 167 ; iv. 64, 188. special sessions and terms by, i. 74 ; iv.
49. removal of causes in case of interest or
disability of district judges, i. 278, 279, 334 ; ii. 534 ; iii. 643. judges, to reside in their districts, ii. 788
not to practise as attorneys, ii . 788. judge of western district of Virginia to
hold court for western district of Penn-
sylvania, iv . 180. under the act respecting aliens, i. 572, 577. in cases of obstructing land surveyors , iv.
417.
in cases of patents, i. 111 , 323. over remission of forfeitures, i. 122, 209.
See Fines, p. 62. over French deserters, i . 254. under the laws respecting Indians, i. 331 ;
and see Indian Affairs, p. 87. certain obsolete acts , i. 395, 532. when judgments and decrees cease to be a
lien, v. 338, 393. concurrent with the circuit court of crimes
not capital, v. 517. extended to lakes and navigable waters, v
726.
under the post-office laws, v. 739. execution issued by, where a state composes
two districts, iv. 184. under laws respecting steamboats, v. 304. to be kept always open, v. 517. obsolete act of 1801 , ch. 4, ii . 89 ; repealed,
ii. 132.
(3.) Terms and Sessions of. in Alabama, iii. 564 , 610, 662 ; iv. 9 , 192,
226, 434 ; v. 210, 315. in Arkansas, v. 337. in Connecticut, i . 74 ; ii. 676 ; v. 601 . in Delaware, i. 74 ; iv. 673. in Florida, v . 788. in Georgia, i. 74, 396 ; ii. 165. in Illinois, iii . 502 ; iv. 19, 434, 568 ; v.
215.
in Indiana, iii . 390 ; iv. 515 ; v. 215 . in Iowa, v. 789.
in Kentucky, i . 74, 76, 396, 518 ; ii. 242, 354, 420, 516 ; iii . 742 ; iv. 11 ; v. 730 .
in Louisiana, ii . 703 ; iii. 774 ; iv. 125, 516, 742 ; v. 722, 726.
in Maine, i . 74, 78, 253 ; ii. 166, 667, 829 ; iii. 413 ; iv. 434 ; v . 600.
in Maryland, i. 74 ; ii. 165. in Massachusetts, i. 74 , 396 ; ii. 815. in Michigan, v. 215, 337. in Mississippi, ii. 302 ; iii . 413, 611 , 667 ;
iv. 399, 773 ; v. 247, 317. in Missouri, iii. 653 ; iv. 22, 55 ; v. 337. in New Hampshire, i. 74. in New Jersey, i. 74 ; ii . 124, 132 ; iii. 678 ;
v. 660. in New York, i. 74 ; ii. 720, 815 ; iii. 120 ,
392, 413, 623 ; iv. 101 , 138 , 422 ; v. 295. in North Carolina, i . 126 , 253, 396, 518 ;
ii. 18 , 123 , 132, 163, 413, 471 , 675 ; iv. 186, 254.
in Ohio, ii. 201 , 202, 421 , 568 ; iii . 544 ; iv. 18, 187 ; v. 215, 488, 652.

GENERAL INDEX .

51

District Courts, (continued .) in Pennsylvania, i . 74, 184, 396, 410 ; iii. 463, 593 ; iv. 50 , 153, 496 ; v. 380, 470, 623. in Rhode Island, i . 128 ; ii. 273. in South Carolina, i . 74 ; iii . 726 ; iv. 34.
in Tennessee, i. 496 ; ii . 165, 274, 421 , 477,516 ; v. 249, 313, 337, 392, 472, 488, 610.
in Vermont, i. 197 , 627 ; ii . 166 ; iii. 258, 776.
m Virginia, i . 74 ; ii . 165, 273 ; iii. 112, 411 , 478, 540, 666 ; iv. 48, 131 , 184, 239, 504, 773 ; v. 61 , 212, 534, 547, 597, 652, 655.
District of Columbia. (1.) Seat of Government.
(2.) Banks and Currency in. (3.) Judicial Provisions. (4.) Militia in. (5.) Crimes in. (6.) Roads, Bridges, and Canals in. (7.) Miscellaneous Provisions.
(1.) Seat of Government. preliminary act, i. 130, 214. loan to carry act of 1790, c . 28, into effect,
i. 461, 551. president may accept donations of land or
money, i. 130.
removal of public offices in case of sickness , i. 620.
removal of public offices to Washington , ii . 55.
(2.) Banks and Currency in. bank bills, circulation of, iv . 742 ; v. 297. extension of charters , iii . 570 , 618 ; vi. 802. for acts respecting particular banks. See
those titles.
penalty for not paying specie, iii . 618 ; v. 450.
bills under $5 prohibited, iii . 619 ; v. 309, 451. See also the charters of the various
banks for acts authorizing the banks to take part of various government loans. See Loans, p. 105 . bills under $10 prohibited, iv. 742. union of two or more banks authorized, iii. 622.
penalties on officers, iii. 618 ; v. 297, 450. loans on stock forbidden, v. 450. election of officers , v. 451. provision for winding up, v. 677. See
the titles of different banks.
bills for circulation (except those of banks) prohibited, iii. 389.
to calculate interest according to " Rowlett's Tables," iv. 310. (3.) Judicial Provisions.
establishment of courts, circuit court, ii . 105 . district court, ii. 124, 166. orphans' court, ii. 107 ; v. 229. criminal court, v. 306, 319. registers of wills, ii. 107 ; iv. 43. levy courts, ii . 115 .
compensation of judges, of circuit court, ii. 106, 107, 660 ; iii. 457.
orphans' court, ii . 107 ; iii . 570 ; iv. 277, 416, 417 ; v . 253.
criminal court, v. 306.

District of Columbia, (continued .) register of wills, ii. 107. justices of the peace , ii. 107.
composition of the courts, of circuit courts, ii. 105 ; v. 654. of district court, ii. 124 , 166. oflevy courts, iv. 43. of orphans' court, ii. 107 ; v. 229. of criminal court, v. 307.
times and places of sessions of court, circuit court, ii. 106, 194, 390, 758 ; iii. 576, 611 ; iv. 23, 186, 525 ; v. 729. district court, ii. 166, 467, 758 ; iii 576, 611.
orphans' court, iv. 43, 277. criminal court, v. 307, 320 , 729. jurisdiction and power of circuit court, generally, ii . 106, 115 ; iii . 744. where either of the parties are non-
residents, ii. 193, 194. to appoint constables and inspectors,
ii. 115.
to grant licenses, ii. 195. where certain Virginia insurance com-
panies sue, ii. 227. nuisances to public roads, ii. 772. suits against the United States for lots
in Washington, iii. 692.
injunctions against the issuing certain bank bills, v. 297.
in bankruptcy, v. 449. bills for the sale of infants ' estates, v
621 .
over trustees of religious societies, v. 679.
under the post-office law, v. 739.
in appeals from register of wills and orphans' courts, ii. 107.
jurisdiction of the district court, ii. 124, 166 ; v. 739.
over appeals from commissioner of patents, v. 354.
jurisdiction of levy courts, ii . 115, 771 ; iv 43 .
in laying out roads in Washington county, ii. 771 .
See the titles of the three counties.
jurisdiction ofjustices of the peace, generally, ii. 107 ; iii. 743. may issue executions, iii. 745. of penal actions under the laws of Georgetown, v. 449.
jurisdiction and powers of criminal court, generally, v. 306, 307. pending cases to be removed to , v. 307 .
may postpone execution of judgment, v. 307.
may adjourn questions of law to the circuit court, v. 307, 320.
marshal, clerk, and attorney , ii . 106 ; v. 307. process,
teste of, ii. 107, 108 ; v. 320.
on judgments in Virginia or Maryland, ii. 107.
when ca. sa. may issue, ii . 194 , 422. writs of execution to run into each
county, ii . 756 . service of a ca. sa. in Washington coun-
ty, ii. 758.
fi. fa. in Washington county how served, ii. 759.

52

GENERAL INDEX :

District of Columbia, (continued .)
what property is exempted from , ii. 224 ; iii. 746.
by whom served, iii. 745. fees of officers,
of marshal, attorney, and clerk to be same as in Maryland, ii. 106 .
of justices of the peace, ii. 107 ; iii . 746, 747.
of register of wills, ii. 107 ; iv. 71. table of, to be set up, iv. 73. penalty for extortion, iv. 73.
ofjudges of orphans ' courts, ii. 107. of clerks for recording deeds, ii . 115. when no special provision is made, to
be the same as in the states, ii. 115, 195, 422.
of clerks on executions, ii. 194, 422. of constables, ii. 194. general act regulating, ii . 430 , 431. in criminal court, v. 307.
interest to run on judgments, ii. 756. damages on dissolution of an injunction to
stay proceedings, ii. 756. removal of cases from one county to the
other, ii. 757.
jury and grand jury , ii. 195, 422 ; iii . 747 ; v. 307.
grand jury, oath of, v. 319. form of indictments, ii. 115 . constables, ii. 194 ; iii. 745. adjournments, iv. 94 ; v. 320. appeals and error,
from circuit to supreme court, ii. 106 ; iii. 261 , 693.
when to be a supersedeas, iii. 261 .
from orphans' court and register of wills to circuit court, ii. 107 .
from justices of the peace to circuit court, iii. 744 ; v. 449.
from criminal court to circuit court, v.
307, 320. from decision of commission of patents
to district court, v. 354. omission to hold certain terms of court pro-
vided for, ii . 467 ; v. 321. local actions to be commenced in the prop-
er counties, ii. 106. (4.) Militia in.
general provision adopting the laws of Maryland and Virginia, (obsolete,) ii . 195.
general act, 1803, c . 20, ii . 215, 769. how called out in case of invasion, ii.
223.
exemption of persons and arms from arrest or seizure, ii. 224.
musicians, ii. 224.
provision for arming, iv. 94. exempts, ii. 224 ; iv. 157 ; vi. 339.
(5.) Crimes in. form of indictments, ii. 115. punishment of felonies, ii. 115. general act, 1831 , c . 37 , iv. 448. sale of lottery tickets suppressed, v. 578. issuing of bills by officers of expired cor-
porations, v. 297. duelling, v. 318. perjury, ii. 239. nuisances on roads , ii. 772. fraudulent practices of bank officers, iii.
618.

District of Columbia, (continued .) forfeited recognizances, ii. 752. (6.) Roads, Bridges, and Canals in. Baltimore and Ohio Railroads. See that
title, p. 11. bridges across the Potomac. See Potomac
Bridge, p. 140. Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.
See that title, p. 27.
power of levy court over roads, ii. 771 . bridge across Rock Creek, ii . 773. road to lower bridge over east branch of
Potomac River, ii. 569.
turnpikes in. See the title of each county.
bridge in place of that of the Washington Bridge Company, iv. 727, 773.
Alexandria authorized to make a canal, ii. 752.
Georgetown authorized to build a causeway, ii. 310.
Washington Bridge Company's bridge, ii. 457 ; iv. 402.
(7.) Miscellaneous Provisions. former laws, how affected by the cession, i.
130 ; ii. 103, 194, 431. two counties established, ii. 105.
recording of deeds , ii. 115 ; iv. 521. execution of deeds of real estate, iv. 520,
521 ; v. 226, 227. separate examination of femes covert when
parties, iv. 521 ; v. 227. delivering of fugitives , ii. 116. fire companies in, vi. 687. appointments in, how made, ii. 116. law as to bills and notes, ii . 755. insolvent debtors in, ii. 237, 391 , 755 ; iii
682 ; v. 629.
prison limits, ii. 241 , 756 ; v. 629. real estate in Alexandria liable for debts,
ii. 756.
slaves may be removed from one county to another, ii. 757.
administrators and executors may sue with out taking out, &c., ii. 758.
order of payment of debts of deceased per sons, ii. 758.
executors and administrators, ii. 758.
government and discipline of penitentiary, iv. 365, 445.
appropriation for penitentiary and jails, ii. 195, 771 ; iii . 318, 415 ; iv. 178, 369, 445, 520 ; v. 62, 262, 318, 364, 579.
appropriation for court-houses, iii. 415, 785 ; v. 262, 663.
public grounds, iv. 518 ; v. 134 ; and see Washington, p. 176.
public buildings. See that title, p. 143. mechanics ' lien in, iv. 659. See Washington, p. 176. Georgetown, p.
72. Alexandria, p. 4. sale of real estate of infants in, v. 621.
insane persons and paupers, v. 439, 537 672 ; vi. 818.
places for religious worship, v. 679. bank bills in. See ante, (2.)
oath of grand jury, v. 319. titles to vacant land in, v. 365. taxes in, ii . 194, 195, 772 ; iv. 183. slaves, ii. 194, 757. insurance, ii. 227. county rates, ii. 194 ; iv. 43, 183. direct tax laid on, iii. 216.

GENERAL INDEX.

53

District of Columbia, (continued .) fees of notaries , iii . 417.

Donly, John, allowance to, for carrying the mail, vi. 345 .

code of jurisprudence to be prepared, iii . | Donnan, Gershom, increase of pension to, vi.

323 ; iv. 457.

114 .

hospital, v. 537.

Donnelson, John, Heirs of, authorized to enter

marriages in, v. 498.

land, vi. 313.

appointment of inspectors, ii. 115.

and others, act of 1824 , c . 142,

only one inspection required for all the dis-

for relief of, extended, vi . 340 , 486, 643.

trict, ii. 195 .

Donnon, Patrick, appropriation for, ii. 647.

inspection of flour in Alexandria county, Doogan, George, pension to, vi . 417.

iv. 44.

Doolittle, Hackalia, pension to, vi. 92.

of tobacco in, iv. 519. arrest (civil) in,

Dooly, William, claim to be settled and paid, vi. 272.

exempts from, ii. 224 ; iii. 743 ; v. 679. | Dorman, Gershom, pension allowed to, vi . 25.

regulation of, v. 498, 629, 678.

increase of pension to, vi.

Districts, Collection . See Collection Districts, p.

114.

32.

Dornin, Lieutenant Thomas, appropriation to pay

Districts, Judicial. See Judicial Districts, p . 91 .
Ditcher, Robert, pension to, vi . 417. Division of Opinion ofjudges in circuit courts,
provided for, i. 334 ; ii. 159.
Dix, John A., to be paid for extra services, vi. 239.

services of, iv. 725. Dorr, Joseph H., penalties remitted to, vi. 143. Dorsett, Oliver, pension to, vi. 728.
Dorsey, John E. , satisfaction to be entered on judgments against, vi. 363. S., regret of congress for loss of, ii. 347.

Dizon, John, to be paid for a lost certificate, vi. 117.

Joshua, to be discharged from prison, vi. 125.

entitled to bounty land and extra Dougherty, John, claims of, to be adjusted, vi.

pay, vi. 781 .

613 .

Joseph, allowance to for land damages,

vi. 404.

790 .

9 authorized to enter land, vi.

Thomas, and Company, penalty remitted to, vi. 646.

Margaret, prize money to be paid to, vi. 924.

Doake, William, preemption right allowed to, Douglas, Daniel, and others, fishing bounty al-

vi. 270.

lowed to, vi. 324.

Dobbins, Daniel, claim of, to be settled , vi . 170. Douglass, Thomas, appropriation for, iv. 628.

Docks,

Elisha, pension to, vi. 418.

for public ships, establishment of, i. 622 ; ii. 821 .

Hannah, seven years' half-pay to representatives of, vi. 590.

See Dry Docks, p. 54.

-, Stephen P. W., excused from part of

Documentary History of the Revolution,

patent oath, vi. 773.

appropriations for publishing, iv. 654, 689 ; Douty, Thomas, prize money to be paid to, vi.

v. 265, 347, 641 , 693.

359.

distribution of, iv. 655.

Dove, William, payment to, vi . 185.

Dodd and Barnard, duties to be refunded to, vi. | Dow , Benjamin, pension to, vi . 543.

380 .

" Jesse E., payment to, vi. 703.

Daniel, pension to , vi. 139.

" to be paid for services, vi. 754.

Dodge, Andrew, claim of, for expenses, to be

Jonathan, pension to, vi. 653.

paid, vi. 623.

-, Reuben, increase of pension to, vi. 76.

John, Heirs of, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; Dowd, Benjamin B., pension to , vi. 727.

vi . 43.

Dowdney, Samuel, pension to, vi . 67.

Doherty, Henry, pension to, vi . 190.

Downer, John, pension to, vi. 416.

Dohrman, Arnold Henry, land patent to issue Downes, Captain John, claim of, to be paid, iv.

to, vi. 43.

769 ; vi. 810.

annuities allowed to widow and children of, vi. 193.
Heirs of, land claim confirmed to, vi. 573.
Rachel, appropriations for, v. 484, 595, 640.
Dolan, Nancy, allowance to, for land lost, vi. 404.
Dole, Thomas, appropriation to pay, v. 776. Doliber, William B. , and others, fishing bounty
allowed to, vi. 582.

Downs, John, pension to, vi. 32, 178. William, authorized to enter lands, vi.
313.
Dox, Gerrit L., suit against, to be suspended, vi. 281 . credit to be allowed to sureties of, vi. 439. 1 Peter, and others, credit to be allowed on a judgment, vi. 439.
Doxtator, Peter, pension to, vi. 633. Doyle, Edmund, grant of land to, in lieu of

Doll, Henry, pension to, vi. 417.

other land, vi. 341 .

Dolph, Charles, donation to the widow of, vi . Dozet, Joseph, to be paid for damages to prop-

167.

erty, vi. 323.

Domestic Goods, reimported free of duty, i . Drafts and Tare, allowance for, i. 166, 671.

662.

Drake, Gilbert, to be discharged from prison,

Donelson, Alexander, claim of, to be settled,

vi. 66.

vi. 536.

N. P., allowance to , vi. 918.

Donoldson, William, to be paid for services, vi. Dragon, Michael, land clain confirmed to, vi

755.

689.

54

GENERAL INDEX .

Dragoons, second regiment of, to be raised, v. 33. to be dismounted after March, 1843 , v. 512.
to be remounted, v. 654.

Drawbacks, (continued .) on dyed silks, iv. 29. on brandy imported in casks of fifteen gal
lons, iv. 235, 373. no drawback allowed on a less amount of

Drawbacks,

cordage than stores, iv. 593.

obsolete acts allowing, i . 26, 27, 173, 181 , 260, 411.

on merchandise to Mexico or British provinces, v. 750.

obsolete acts regulating allowance of, i . 45, Drew, John, certain expenses of, to be paid, iv.

46, 372, 412, 422, 546.

576.

general acts allowing, i. 680 ; iii . 313, 314, 459, 460, 515 ; iv. 29, 592 ; v . 750.
no drawback unless duties amount to

Joshua, fine to be refunded, vi. 880. Samuel, payment to be made for serVices, vi. 236 .

$50, i. 681. in what packages, &c., goods to be export-
ed, i. 681 ; iii. 738.
from what districts goods to be exported, i. 681 , 684.
to what countries to be exported, i. 681 . entry for, i. 681 , 682 ; iii . 738. oaths to be taken, i. 682, 683.

Droit d'Aubaine, treaty stipulation respecting, with Algiers, viii. 135. Central America, viii . 326. Chile, viii. 435 , 436. Ecuador, viii. 538. France, viii. 18, 182. Hanover, viii. 556.

inspection to be made, i. 681 . debentures to be issued, i. 687, 688.
how and when paid, i . 687 , 688 ; iii. 640 ; v. 207.

Hanseatic Republics , viii . 370. Mexico, viii. 414, 416. Morocco, viii. 103, 486. Peru-Bolivia, viii. 489.

to be assignable, i . 688. suits on, by assignees, i. 689. bond to deliver goods abroad, i. 689. how discharged, i. 690, 691 . how much of the duty to be retained, i. 173, 546 ; ii. 82, 153 ; iii. 314 ; v. 563.

Prussia, viii. 88, 166, 384. Russia, viii. 448. Sardinia, viii. 520. Spain, viii . 144. Sweden, viii. 64. Wurttemburg, viii . 588.

on goods exported to New Orleans, ii. 36 ; | Drulyard, George, land warrant to be issued to,

repealed, ii . 248.

vi. 66.

time of export,

Drummond, Grieve, pension to, vi. 153.

to be within twelve months, i. 681.

--, amount of pensions with-

time of embargo not reckoned , ii. 454,

held to be paid to, vi. 527.

748 .

Drury, Wilfred, donation to, vi. 176.

time extended to three years, iv. 330 ; v. 563.
special provisions as to New Orleans, ii. 36, 248, 253, 308.
no drawback on importations from coun-

Dry Docks, surveys and estimates for, iv. 195 ; v. 702. authorized, iv. 243, 779 ; v. 500 , 616, 701 .
Drysdale, John, to be paid for service in militia, vi. 893.

tries where United States vessels are not allowed to trade , iii. 314. no drawback of the additional duty on imports in foreign vessels, ii. 83 ; iii. 314 ; v. 563. special provisions as to Florida, iii. 655. forfeiture for relanding goods, i . 46, 692. false entries for, punished, i . 694 ; iii. 486. from what ports goods for, may be exported , i. 684-687.
on goods transported by land from and to

Duane, Colonel William, allowance to, for 66 Cavalry System , " vi. 298. claim of, to be settled,
and allowance to, vi. 335.
Dublin Township, scrip to issue to, vi. 862. Dubois, Lewis, half-pay of a colonel allowed to,
vi. 16.
Du Buque, to be laid out in lots, streets, &c ., v. 70.
proceeds of land to be paid to, v. 178. Du Buque, County of, grant of land to, v. 666.

certain ports and places, i. 686 ; ii. 36, | Duels,

103, 261, 578 ; iii. 405 ; iv. 188.

in District of Columbia, v. 318.

on goods transported in any manner from

in army, ii. 363.

any district to any other, iv . 442.

Duchouquet, Francis, allowance to, vi. 46.

on goods transported coastwise , i. 684, 685, | Ducker, Enoch, pension to, vi. 139.

656 ; iii. 737, 738 ; iv. 304.

Ducoing, Francis, pension to, vi. 578.

on wines and spirits transported coastwise , | Dudley, Benjamin W., claim of, to be settled,

iii. 470, 515, 737.

vi. 626.

twenty days allowed after entry for giving bonds, iii. 314, 438.

Edward B., forfeiture remitted to, vi. 240 .

twenty days from clearance for completing Duer, William A. and John, and another, cer-

entry and oath, iii . 564, 737.

tificate to be paid to, vi. 587.

time allowed by secretary of treasury after Duffy, James, pension to, vi. 935.

twenty days, iv. 95.

Dufossat, Joseph Soniat, land claim confirmed

on distilled spirits, i . 210 , 270, 379, 492,

to , vi. 488.

504 ; iii. 338, 444 , 640, 739 ; iv. 272,419 ; Dufour, John James, and his Associates, author-

v. 464, 563. on snuff, i. 387, 495, 509, 608 ; ii. 54.

ized to purchase lands, vi . 47. five years

on refined sugar, i. 387, 504 ; iii . 36, 340,

allowed to, to pay for lands, vi. 126.

444, 640 ; iv. 331 ; v . 464 , 563.

Dugan, George, pension to, vi. 139.

GENERAL INDEX .

5553

Duggan, Jeremiah, Widow and Heirs of, grant | Duties on Imports, (continued .)

of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.

coal on board of steamers, v . 288.

Dumas, Andre, land claim of representatives of,

iron, iii. 460 ; iv. 587, 588, 635, 645,

confirmed, v. 493. Dumouchel, Eugene Charles, land claim con-
firmed to, vi. 498.

712, 778 ; v. 147, 234. alum , iii. 460. molasses, iv. 419.

Dunbar, Joseph, pension to, vi. 25. allowance to, for extra ser-
vices, vi. 360.

umbrellas, v. 329.
railroad iron, iv. 411 , 604 ; v. 61, 465, 551, 727.

Dunbar, Thomas, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 409 .

books, iv. 277. lead, iv. 717.

Duncan, Jared, pension to, vi. 92.

on wrecked goods, v. 609.

Jonas, allowance to, for use of a house, vi. 307.

on saltpetre and sulphur, ii. 471. duty on coffee, tea, and cocoa, reduced, iv.

Joseph, sword to be presented to , iv. 792.
Lieutenant Silas, resolution respecting

403, 611. certain provision in § 2 of tariff of 1832,
suspended, iv. 644 , 712, 778 ; v. 147,234.

good conduct of, on Lake Champlain, iv. 195.
Dundas, Agnes, Heirs of, release of land to, vi. 823 .

tobe uniform throughout the United States, i. 13.
ad valorem, how ascertained, i . 41 , 167,

Dunham and Reed, to be paid for advances to

411, 673 ; iii . 369, 434, 732.

troops, vi . 232 . Dunham, Joseph E., allowed to enter certain
land, v. 715.

to be paid in cash, v. 561 .
may be taken in the goods themselves, v. 565.

Dunlap and Claypoole, appropriation to pay, i. 339.

no duty on domestic goods reimported, i. 162, 662.

Dunlap, Richard T., and others,  duties to be

Robert P., and others,

refunded to,

vi. 833.

provision as to bonds for, i . 42, 168, 171, 174, 372, 673, 674 ; ii. 72, 316.
term of credit extended during embargo, ii.

Dunn, Oswald, appropriation for, iii. 673.

471 , 513.

Du Peron, Jean, pension to, vi . 180.

by whom executed , iii . 737.

Dupree, Widow, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi. 438.
Dupuis, John B. , location of a Madrid certifi-

discount on payment in cash, iii. 737. extension of bonds for, in 1837, v. 205. remission of duties,

cate confirmed to , vi. 377. Durand, Isaac, pension to, vi . 111 . Durell, John, increase of pension to , vi. 180. Duret, Louis, land claim confirmed to repre-

to sufferers by fire, in Portsmouth, ii. 201 .
on a monument to those who fell at
Tripoli, ii. 476.

sentatives of, vi . 202. Durfee, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 737. Durham, Thomas, release of land to, vi. 818.

on a statue of Washington, iii. 543 ; iv. 175.
on a presentation sword to Captain

Durkee, John, seven years' half-pay allowed to representatives of, vi. 110.
Durnal, John, pension to, vi. 76. Duties, Collection of. See Collection of Duties,

Thomas Macdonough, iii. 662. on books, &c., for library of congress,
iv. 82.
on a statue of A. Hamilton, iv. 175.

p. 33. Duties on Imports,

where persons were ignorant of the stat. 1830, § 3, iv. 451.

general acts laying, in 1789, i. 24 ; in 1790, i . 180 ; in 1791 , i . 199 ; in 1792, i. 259 ; in 1794, i.

on goods burnt at New York, v. 284. provision as to duties paid under protest,
v. 348, 727.

390 ; in 1795, i . 411 ; in 1797, i. 503 ;

duty on prize goods, iii. 75.

in 1800, ii. 84 ; in 1804 , ii . 299 ; in 1812, ii. 768 ; in 1816, iii . 310 ; in

refunding of, to certain umbrella-makers, v. 329.

1818, iii. 458 ; in 1824, iv . 25 ; in

to the Lexington and Ohio Railroad

1828, iv . 270 ; in 1832, iv. 583, 644 ; in 1833, (compromise act,) iv. 629 ; in 1841 , v. 463 ; in 1842, v . 548. additional duty of 2 per cent. for defray-

Company, v. 169. in cases common to all the vessels of
particular nations. See the titles ofthose nations.

ing expense of operations against the Barbary powers, ii . 291 , 391 , 436, 456 , 511, 555, 614, 675.

for treaties containing what is called the " most favored nation " clause, see that
title, p. 118.

100 per cent. additional, during war with

for reciprocity treaties. See Reciprocity,

Great Britain , ii . 763. 42 per cent. additional, till new adjustment
of tariff, iii. 253.

p. 145.
other stipulations concerning duties in treaties with

special acts and provisions as to distilled spirits, i. 199. teas, i . 219 ; iv. 403.
wines, i . 219 ; ii. 515 ; iv . 309 ; v. 126.

Algiers, viii. 133. China, viii . 592 to 605. France, viii . 278, 280, 432. Greece, viii. 502. Mexico, viii. 412.

salt, i . 533 ; ii . 60 , 436 ; iii. 49 ; iv. 419.

Morocco, viii. 485. Muscat, viii. 458.

iron wire, ii. 804 .

Russia, viii. 446.

56

GENERAL INDEX .

Duties on Imports, (continued .) Sardinia, viii. 518, 522. Sweden, viii . 234, 238, 350. Tunis, viii. 159.
Duties and Excises, Internal,
power of congress to lay, i. 13. acts abolishing, ii. 148 ; iii . 401 . obsolete acts for assessment and collection
of generally, iii . 22, 82, 164, 180 , 239, 315, 401 , 441. on stamps, i. 527, 536, 545, 622 ; iii. 77, 148 , 253.

Eastern Branch Bridge Company, to be paid for damages to the bridge, vi. 152. Bridge Company, incorporated , vi. 225.
East Florida, Inhabitants of, allowance to, vi. 569.
East Florida Railroad Company, authorized to construct their road through
public lands, and to take parts thereof, v. 144.
inconsistent acts of Florida respecting, an nulled, v. 146.
Eastman, Eli, pension to, vi. 725.

on distilled spirits, i. 199, 267, 378, 494,

Jonathan B., accounts of, vi. 156.

504, 539, 547, 720 ; iii. 42, 137, 152, 243, 291 .

Robert, patent right extended to, vi. 613.

on licenses to retailers to sell spirits , i. 376, 438 ; ii. 102 ; iii . 42, 72, 137, 159, 201 , 205, 291, 320, 369.
on carriages, i. 373, 438, 478 ; ii. 102 ; iii. 40, 148.

Thomas, pension to, vi. 23. Eastport, surveyor at, appointment of, iii. 694. Easton, Eliphalet, pension to, vi. 67.
Sarah, allowance to, vi. 437. interest allowed to, vi. 524.

on snuff, i. 384, 426, 438, 495, 509, 608 ; ii. Eaton, Joseph, allowance to, vi. 529.

54.

Origen, pension to, vi. 632.

on refined sugar, i. 384, 426, 438, 495, 509 ;

Robert, penalty to be refunded to, vi. 541.

ii. 54, 102 ; iii. 35, 253. on goods at auction , i. 397, 438 ; ii. 102 ;

William, accounts of, to be settled , vi 65.

iii. 44, 113, 159.

Eccleston, Charles, released from a judgment,

on furniture, watches, &c ., iii. 186 , 264.

vi. 151.

on plated ware and jewelry, iii. 217, 230, 254, 264.
on domestic manufactures, iii . 180, 254. Duties on Tonnage. See Tonnage Duties, p .
169.
Dutton, Joseph L., claim of, to be paid, vi. 284. D'Uttrick, Baron, vi. 244. Duval and Carnes, to be paid for damages, vi.
466 .

Eckfeldt, Adam, appropriation for, v. 225. Eckford, Henry, allowance to, in full payment
of claim, vi. 871.
Eckright, Isaac, pension to , vi. 610. Ecuador, Republic of,
Treaty of June 13, 1839, with, viii. 534. Article 1. Peace declared, viii. 534. Art. 2. Commercial favors granted by
either to other nations to become com-

--, Daniel, commutation of half-pay allowed to, vi. 720.
 Edward W., credit to be allowed to , vi. 702.

mon to the other, viii. 534. Art. 3. Trade and navigation to be free
to each, excepting as to coastwise trade and one other exception, viii. 534.

Mareen, to be paid for provisions, vi. 303.

Art. 4. Reciprocity in trade secured , viii. 534, 536.

William P., accounts of, to be settled , vi. 925.

Art. 5. What shall be considered Ecuado. rian vessels, viii. 536.

Duverge, Bartholomew , to be paid for damages

Art. 6. Each party to stand on the footing

to property, vi . 260. Dyer, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 33.
Walter, pension restored to, vi. 652. Dygert, Dennis, pension to, vi. 872. Dysart, James, pension to, vi. 68. Dyson, Leonard, confirmation of land claim of,

of equality with the most favored nation, both in respect to duties and to prohibitions, viii. 536.
Art. 7. Rights of citizens of one nation in the territory ofthe other secured, viii . 536 .

suspended, vi. 382.

Art. 8. No embargo without indemnifica-

Dyster, Joseph Joshua, allowed to obtain a patent right, vi. 87.

tion, viii. 536, 538. Art. 9. Vessels seeking refuge from stress

of weather, &c., to be protected, & c. ,

viii. 538.

E.

Art. 10. Captures by pirates to be restored,

viii. 538.

Eadus, William, allowance to, for a house burnt, vi. 710.
Eagan, Thomas, pension to, vi. 26.

Art. 11. Assistance to be given in cases of wrecks, &c., viii. 538.
Art. 12. Citizens of either party may dis-

Earl, Daniel, Jr., grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi. 43. Earle, Elias, Representatives of, released from
a judgment, vi. 510.

pose of their personal goods within the jurisdiction of the other. In case of
real estate, alien heirs allowed three

William N., accounts of, vi . 299. Earnest, William, pension to, vi. 233. Earthquake,

years to dispose of their property, viii 538.
Art. 13. Protection to persons and prop

reliefto sufferers by , at Venezuela, ii . 730 .

erty, viii. 538, 540.

at New Madrid, iii. 211. Earwood, Joel, allowed to transfer money paid,
to any entry of land, vi. 198.

Art. 14. Liberty of conscience, and the rites of burial, secured, viii. 540.
Art. 15. Both parties at liberty to trade

East, William, to be paid for horseshoes, vi. 746 .

with those at enmity with either, &c. Free ships to make free goods - contra-

GENERAL INDEX .

57

Ecuador, Republic of, (continued . ) band excepted. All persons on board, except those in the actual service of an enemy, to be free. Flag covering the property to be applied to those powers only, who acknowledge the principle, viii. 540.
Art. 16. Enemy's property, to be protected

Ecuador, Republic of, (continued. ) and refused, or unreasonably delayed. Treaties with other powers not contravened by this . This treaty to be ratified, and the ratifications to be exchanged, within three years, viii. 550.
Eddy, Caleb, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 829.  Jonathan, grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi. 43 .

by a neutral flag, must be shipped within six months after the declaration of
war, &c ., viii. 540, 542.
Art. 17. Contraband specified , viii. 542.

Edenton, collector for the district of, may allow vessels having salt only to go to any other port within the district and discharge the same, ii. 137.

Art. 18. Goods not contraband. Definition of a blockade, viii. 542.
Art. 19. Contraband only liable to confiscation. Vessels delivering up contra-

Eel-River Indians, treaty with, of August 3, 1795, vii. 49. treaty with, of June 7, 1803, vii. 74. relinquishment of land to the United States

band not to be detained , viii. 542.

by, August 7, 1803, vii. 77.

Art. 20. Provision for the case of a vessel

treaty with, of August 21 , 1805 , vii . 91 .

sailing without notice of the blockade. Vessels entering before blockade to be

treaty with, of September 30, 1809, vii. 113 .

allowed to depart. Not liable if found

separate articles with the Miamies and

therein after reduction and surrender,

Eel-Rivers, forming a part of the treaty

viii. 542, 544.

of September 30, 1809, with the Dela

Art. 21. During a visit at sea, armed ves-

wares, &c., vii. 115.

sels to remain out of cannon shot. Ex-

treaty with, of February 11 , 1828, vii. 309.

amination, how to be made, &c. , viii . | Edgar, John, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.

544.

entitled to benefit of act of 1822,

Art. 22. In case of war, sea-letters, certifi-

c. 53, vi. 427.

cates of cargo, & c., to be furnished, | Edmonds, Samuel, surety of, released , vi. 898.

showing to whom the property belongs, Edmondson, John, pension to, vi. 915.

viii. 544.

Samuel A., allowance to, vi . 591.

Art. 23. Visiting regulations apply only to

-, Thomas, pension to, vi. 179.

vessels without convoy, viii . 544.

Edmonson, Samuel, payment to, vi. 185.

Art. 24. Prize causes to be tried in the established courts only. Decree of condemnation to specify the reasons thereof, viii. 544, 546.
Art. 25. Citizens of neither party to en-

Edwards, Abraham, pension allowed to, vi. 231. -, Amos, credit allowed to sureties of,
vi. 484.
-, Evan, land warrant to issue to heirs of, vi. 604.

gage in the service of an enemy of the other, viii. 546. Art. 26. In case of war , merchants allowed time to arrange their business, and transport their effects, &c. Citizens of other

Gideon, pension to, vi. 81. James M., pension to, vi. 737. Jonathan, pension to, vi. 418. Leroy, allowance to the heirs of, vi. 351 .

occupations to be protected, viii. 546.

-, William, account of, to be settled and

Art. 27. No confiscations in case of war,

his expenses paid, vi. 201.

viii. 546.

Egerton, Giles, authorized to enter land, vi . 366.

Art. 28. Ministers and other public agents Eiler, Laurentius M., claim of, to be settled and

to enjoy the same favors as those of the

paid, vi. 624.

most favored nation, viii. 546.

Elder, Robert, pension to, vi. 12.

Art. 29. Consuls and vice-consuls admit- Eldred, Moses, increase of pension to, vi. 728.

ted into ports open to foreign commerce, Eldridge, Ephraim, allowed to enter certain

viii. 546.

land, v. 715.

Art. 30. Consuls to exhibit their commissions and obtain exequaturs before they shall be considered as such, viii. 548.
Art. 31. Consuls, & c., exempt from certain taxes. Their archives and papers inviolable, viii. 548.

Elections, each house of congress to be the judge of the elections of its members , i . 11 . power of congress over, i. 11. of electors to be on the same day in each state, v. 721 .

Art. 32. Consuls may require the assistance of the authorities in securing deserters. Mode of proceeding . Deserters, how to be disposed of, viii. 548.
Art. 33. A consular convention to be
formed, viii. 548. Art. 34. Construction to be put upon the
words " mostfavored nation. " Proviso, viii. 548.

constitutional provisions as to, i . 16, 22. time of choice of, (obsolete, ) i . 239. of president and vice-president, constitutional provisions as to, i. 16, 22. how votes are to be cast, i . 239, 240 ;
ii. 295.
how sent on, i . 240. how, and by whom, and when, opened,
i. 240.

Art. 35. Duration of this treaty . Citizens personally responsible for infringing this treaty, and the harmony of the two nations not to be affected thereby . Reprisals not to be authorized , nor war declared, until justice has been demanded VOL. VIII. 8

in case of the vacancy ofthe offices of president and vice-president, how others are to be chosen, i . 240.
contested, regulations for, i. 537 ; ii . 39. of members of congress to be by districts,
v. 491 .

58

GENERAL INDEX .

Electors, of president and vice- president, compensation of, i. 240 ; iv . 81. how chosen, i. 16. when chosen, i. 239 ; v. 721 . when to meet, i. 239 ; ii. 295. mode of voting, i. 16, 22 ; ii . 295 . how vote of, is to be transmitted to congress, i. 240. choice of, when there is a vacancy in the offices of president and vice-president, i . 240.
Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, appropriation for, v. 618, 757.
Eliza, Vessel, duties on , to be refunded, vi. 833. Ann, Ship, case of, to be decided by sec-
retary of treasury, vi. 104. Elizabeth City Parish Churchwardens, allow-
ance to, for a bell , vi. 404. Schooner, bounty allowed to owners,
&c., of, vi. 671. Eliot, Jonathan, to be paid for forage, &c., vi.
714 .
Elkins, Jonathan, increase of pension to, vi. 638 .
Ellery, Joseph, pension to, vi . 906. Elliott, Bernard, claims of widow and orphans
of, to be adjusted, vi. 6. -, George, allowance to, for services and
expenses, vi. 572. --- pension to, vi. 645.
Jesse D. ,
thanks of congress to, ii . 830 ; iii. 141 . prize money to, iii. 4.
John, pension to, vi . 113. C. , released as surety of J. H. Al-
ley, vi. 268. Jonathan, allowed further time to com-
ply with building regulations, vi . 244 . appropriation for, iv. 627.
Joseph, pension to , vi. 81 . lands released to , vi. 507.
Nathaniel, pension to, vi . 416. and Purviance, duties remitted to , vi. 15.
" Robert, $2000 allowed to the widow of, vi. 57.
" William, appropriation for, iii . 673. P., appropriation for, v . 174.
Elliot's Debates, appropriation for distribution of, v. 171.
Ellis, Abraham , land confirmed to, ii. 527. " David, debentures allowed to , vi. 393. > Colonel John, Heirs of, grant of land to, vi. 444.
Samuel, indemnification to be allowed to, vi. 132.
-, Vespasian, certificates of payment to be received from , vi . 743.
William, allowed to enter certain land , v . 715 .
Ellsworth, Chief Justice, marble bust of, to be procured for supreme court room , iv. 717 ; v. 173.
Henry L., appropriation for service as commissioner to Miami Indians, v . 301.
Elmslic, Alexander, duties refunded to, vi. 200. Ely, Elisha, and another, to be indemnified for
damages, vi . 482. John, allowance to , vi . 543 .
Embargo, president authorized to lay an embargo, i. 372.

Embargo, (continued .) embargo laid by congress , i. 400. to last to May 25, 1795, i. 401 . provision as to coastwise vessels, i . 400 . embargo of 1807 laid , ii. 451 .
supplementary acts, ii . 453, 473, 499. 531 .
suspension of, authorized , ii . 490. not to affect trade with the Indians, ii.
502.
an act to enforce the embargo, ii . 506, provision as to importing property
owned before embargo, ii. 475, 511.
an extension of credit for duties given during the embargo, ii. 471 , 513.
penalties to be recovered notwithstanding act had expired, ii . 606.
embargo laid in 1812, for ninety days, ii. 700 .
land or naval force may be employed to enforce, ii. 708.
embargo of 1813 laid, iii . 88. duration ofthe act, iii. 93.
partial exemption of Nantucket from, iii. 94.
vessels to be permitted to return to their own districts, iii. 98.
repealed, iii. 123. penalties not remitted by the repeal,
iii. 123. Embezzlement,
by persons in the army, ii. 364, 365. by persons in the navy, i. 711, 713 ; ii. 48. of letters, i. 737 ; iv. 107. at the mint, i. 250 ; iv. 122. of wines and spirits deposited in public
storehouses, iii. 470. of public stores, arms, &c. , i . 116. Emeline, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owners and crew of, vi. 579.
Emerson, John, commutation of half- pay allowed to , vi. 600.
Solomon, pension restored to, vi . 889. William, Representatives of, and
others, proceeds of seizure to be paid to, vi. 464.
Eminent Domain, Right of, not to be exercised without making compensation, i. 21
Employment, of forcing seamen in public ships not allowed, ii. 809. of naturalized citizens, ii . 809. exception as to foreign ports, ii . 810. exception as to seamen of nations not ex cluding our seamen, ii. 810.
Encomium, The, indemnity for slaves lost from, v. 601.
Enemies, trade with, prohibited , ii . 778 ; iii. 195, 226. alien, removal and restraint of, i. 577 ; ii. 781.
Engineers, corps of provision for, i. 366, 430, 483 ; ii. 106, 720 ; iii. 615 ; v. 256.
pay, i. 366, 484 ; ii . 720 ; v. 256. duty, i. 367 ; ii. 367 ; iv. 23. books, &c., to be provided for, i. 366, 553. teachers of, i. 605 ; ii . 206 . two additional, with rank of lieutenant-
colonel, to be appointed, ii. 753. corps of, at West Point, ii. 137. See West
Point, p. 178. not to perform other duties but by special
order, ii. 367.
rank of and respect to be paid to, ii. 367.

GENERAL INDEX .

59

Engineers, (continued. ) company of bombardiers , sappers, &c ., ii. 720; iii. 615.
assistant to the corps of, iii. 342 ; repealed , iv. 697.
increase of, authorized in 1838 , v. 256 . paymaster of, ii. 720 ; v. 257. topographical, organized, v . 257. authority to employ civil engineers, iv. 23 ;
repealed, v. 257. officers of, not to be paid for disbursing
public money while superintending public works, v. 260, 303. in steamships, v . 577. England. See Great Britain, p. 74. English, Francis, land patent to issue to, vi . 380.
John, and others, allowance to, for expenses of suit, vi . 373.
" Joseph, allowance to, for property lost, vi. 403.
William, pension to, vi. 190 . Engraver in the Mint,
office established , i . 246 ; v. 136. pay, i. 247 ; v. 137. duties, i. 247 ; v . 136. assistant to, v. 137. to take an oath, &c ., i . 247 ; v. 137. Enlistment, in foreign service, when prohibited. See
Neutrality, p. 123. in the army, bounty on, iv. 647 ; and see
Army, p. 7. bounty on reënlistment, iv. 647 ; v. 260 .
how made, i. 361. oath on, i. 361.
who may enlist, i. 119, 694, 751 ; ii . 135, 672, 795 ; iii. 147 ; iv. 647 ; v. 260.
penalty for enlisting others, ii. 135, 672, 795 .
in another regiment without having been discharged from foriner one, how punished, ii. 362.
four days after enlistment given for a reconsideration, iii. 147.
Ennis, Gregory, and another, to be paid for services, vi. 327.
Enos, Roger, moiety of a penalty to be paid to, vi. 439. -, William, authorized to surrender and locate lands, vi. 584.
Enrolment of Vessels,
in coasting trade, (obsolete acts,) i. 55, 60, 229 ; (in force, ) i. 305.
form of, i. 306. when vessel is in a port other than where
she is owned, i. 306. on a transfer by law, i. 498. special provision for enrolling vessels
owned in the territory ceded by Spain before such cession, iii. 660.
special, for those owned in the territory of Louisiana before cession, ii . 259.
of steamboats, ii. 694. bond, ii. 694. when owned by a corporation , iv. 129.
Ensign, Ariel, allowance to, for improvements, vi. 475.
Enterprise, Brig, capture of a Tripolitan corsair by, ii. 198 . the Boxer by, iii. 141 .
Enterprise, Ship, drawback allowed on cargo of, i . 416. exportation of imports by, allowed, vi. 19.

Entries of Land, errors in, provided for, iii. 526 iv . 31.
Entry, of vessels, provisions respecting, (obsolete,) i. 38, 158, 171 , 295 ; (in force ,) i . 639. to be made at some port of entry, i. 639. of vessels from beyond the Cape of Good Hope, where to be made , i. 639. of vessels bound to a port of delivery, i. 63, 64, 641. of certain vessels during embargo, ii. 776, 794.
of vessels having foreign persons of color on board forbidden in certain cases, ii. 205, 206.
vessels in coastwise trade not bound to enter, i. 15 .
as to what are ports of entry, see that title, p. 136.
of goods at custom-house, provisions respecting, (obsolete,) i . 39, 161 , 169 ; (in force,) i . 655 ; iii. 729. to be made within 15 days, i . 655. form of, i. 655, 656. oath on, i. 656 ; iii. 730. how made by agent of owner, i . 657. form when particulars are not known, i. 658 ; iii. 729, 730. separate entry of wines, &c ., i . 658. of articles exempt from duty, i . 661 , 662. forfeiture on a false entry, i . 661, 662. of reimported goods, i. 663. proceedings on incomplete entry , i. 665 ; iii. 730. proceedings on entry of damaged or marked goods, i . 666 ; iii. 736 ; v. 609. post entry, i. 671 ; iii. 729.
further regulations respecting entry of goods, iii. 729.
no goods subject to an ad valorem duty to be admitted to entry without true invoice, except, & c., iii. 729.
exception of wrecked goods, iii. 736 ; v. 609. exception of entry on appraisement, iii. 729,
730.
disposition of the goods entered without invoices, iii. 730.
oaths on entry with invoices, iii . 730, 731 , 732 .
provision when owner is absent, iii. 733. oath ofassignee, executor, or administrator,
iii. 734.
provision where some of the owners are residents and the others non-residents, iii. 734.
discretion to admit to entry given to the secretary of the treasury, iii. 734.
where entry is refused , goods to be deemed suspected, iii. 734 . proceedings thereon , iii . 734, 735.
entry on invoice to be certified by collector, iii. 737.
of merchandise from adjacent territories, iii. 616, 781.
Epervier, Brig, pay to the relatives of those lost in, iii. 369 ; vi. 188.
Epidemic Diseases, removal of congress in case of, i. 353. removal of custom-house officers in case
of, i. 620.
removal of courts and prisoners in case of, i. 620, 621 .

60

GENERAL INDEX .

Epidemic Diseases, (continued . ) removal of public offices in case of, i. 620. cost of, to be reported to congress, ii. 397.
Eppes, Richard, to be paid for clothing, vi. 416.
Equipment and Augmentation, of ships for foreign service prohibited, iii. 448.
Equity, jurisdiction of circuit courts over suits in, i. 78.
suits in, not to be sustained when there is a
plain and adequate remedy at law , i. 82. suits in, to take depositions in perpetuam ,
i. 90. facts on which the decree is founded must
be made to appear on the record, i. 83. fees in, i. 94. forms and proceedings in, to be according
to the civil law, i . 93, 94. injunctions in. See Injunctions, p. 88. supreme court may prescribe forms in, v.
518.
on appeal, a transcript of all the papers, evidence, and proceedings to be transmitted, ii. 244.
court may order testimony to be taken by deposition, i. 88 ; ii. 166.
jurisdiction in, over suits to discover fraud in land purchases, iv. 392.
courts of, to be always open, v . 317. omission of parties, the joining of whom
would oust the jurisdiction , v. 321 . lien of decrees in , v . 338 , 393. jurisdiction over suits for infringement of
copyright or patents, iii. 481 . Erb, Lawrence, discharge from imprisonment,
vi. 45.
Ermatinger, George, allowance to, for a horse killed, vi. 445.
Error, Writs of, from supreme to circuit court where they lie, i. 84.
to lie from supreme to circuit courts in cases brought to circuit court on error from district court, v . 393.
to lie to all final judgments on suits in circuit court by United States to enforce revenue laws, v. 658. form of, i. 84, 278. regulation of, i. 84, 278.
from supreme to state courts , i. 85, 86. from circuit to district court, i. 84. for what errors issuable , i . 84, 85, 86. limitation of five years, with exception, i.
85.
security tobe taken before signing citation, i. 85 , 404.
when a supersedeas, i. 85. proceedings on reversal, i. 85. Errors, in land entries, provision for, iii. 526 ; iv.
31, 301 , 302. in entries of goods at custom-house, pro-
vision for, i. 671. Erving, George W. , appropriation for, ii. 647.
William, account of, to be settled, vi. 147.
Erwin, James, released as surety of J. H. Alley, vi . 263.
Escape, note of decisions on, iii. 646. Eskridge, Thomas P., purchase money to be
refunded to representatives of, vi . 796. Eslava, Miguel, land title confirmed to heirs of,
vi. 311 , 822.

Espie, Samuel, pension to , vi. 515. Estes, Abraham, pension to, vi. 153. Esteves, Succession of, land claim not confirmed
to, vi. 499.
Essex, Frigute, fitting out of, ii . 514. Estimates,
annual, of expenditures, to be made up to June 30, v. 536.
annual, to be made by the secretary ofthe treasury, ii. 79, 80; iii. 568.
annual, to be made by the postmaster. general, v. 80.
sources of estimate to be communicated, v. 526.
degree of particularity required, v. 693. Eustace, John, allowance to the heirs of, vi
351.
Evans, Ann , five years' half-pay allowed to, vi. 653.
Daniel, pension to, vi. 113. " Edward, increase of pension to, vi. 69.
" claim of, to be adjusted, vi 312.
Lewis, and others, grant of land to, vi. 567.
and M'Neal, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 172.
Oliver, patent right granted to , vi . 70. . , patent right extended seven
years, vi. 147. Scioto, to be paid for a horse, vi. 660. William, pension to, vi. 82.
Evat, Edward, allowance to, for a house burnt, vi. 281.
Eveleth, William S., credit to be allowed to, vi. 892.
Everts, Stephen, increase of pension to, vi . 124. Everett, Alexander H., accounts of, to be settled,
vi. 436.
Jeremiah, pension to, vi. 26. Everist, Ethan, rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195. Evidence,
consul's certificate , when evidence , i . 255 ; ii. 204.
state acts and records, how authenticated, i. 122 ; ii. 298.
judicial proceedings of other states, how authenticated, i. 122 ; ii. 298.
in contested elections of member of congress , i . 537 ; ii. 39.
certified copies of patents, v. 191 . copies of records in state department, i. 69. copies of record of the old court of appeals,
i. 279. collector's certificate of invoices to be evi-
dence of value as against owner, iii. 737. transcript of accounts, & c., from treasury
department, i. 512. transcript from accounts, &c., of post-office
department, ii. 602 ; v. 82.
transcripts from war and navy departments, iii. 367.
exemplifications from land office, v. 627. in court-martials, ii. 368, 370.
proof to be by oral testimony, i. 88. exception in equity, ii. 166.
depositions, how taken. See Depositions, p. 47.
taking down of, in writing, in district court, i. 89.
when matters may be proved under the general issue . See General Issue, p 71.

GENERAL INDEX.

61

Evidence, (continued .) commissioners to take . See Commissioners,
p. 38. Ewing, Reuben, judgment against, to be endorsed
" satisfied," vi. 335.
William L. D., to be credited with losses by robbery, vi. 352.

Extortion, (continued. ) by collector of internal revenue, iii . 34, 177.
Extradition of Criminals, treaty stipulations respecting, with France, viii. 580, 617.
Great Britain, viii. 129, 576.

Ewings, Samuel, land patent to be issued to, vi . Eyerly, Jacob, accounts of, to be examined , vi .

276.

627.

Excises. See Duties, Internal, p. 56. Executions,
when and how issuable, i . 81 , 83. when ca. sat., i. 94, 276. in Tennessee, iii. 661.

Eyers, Samuel, increase of pension to , vi . 115. -, pension allowed to, vi. 25.
Fabre, William, prize money allowed to, vi . 888. Fagot, Charles, land claim confirmed to, vi.
500.

in favor of United States, to run into every state, i. 515.
how served, on surrender by bail in other districts, i. 727.
how levied on land, i. 335.

Fain, John, pension to, vi. 140. Fairbanks, Erastus and Thaddeus, overpay-
ment to be refunded to, vi . 749. Jason, and another, released from a
bond, vi. 255.

marshal may sell land appraised and deliv- Fairbrother, Richard, pension to, vi . 67.

ered under, ii. 61 .

 increase of pension , vi .

in case of death of marshal , ii. 61 .

140.

against garnishees, iii. 443. arms of militia exempt from, i . 272. where there are two districts, iv. 184. relief of prisoners. See Poor Debtors, p.
135.

Fairfield, Jack, warrant to issue for bounty land of, v. 216.
Falconer, Joseph, Representatives of, claim for lost certificates allowed to, vi. 430. interest to be allowed to exec-

at sale on execution in favor of United
States, they may purchase, iv. 51. interest to be allowed on, where the state
law authorizes it, v. 518. in District of Columbia, ii . 107. stay and supersedeas of, where error lies, i.
83, 85.

utors of, vi . 574.
and Stewart, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.
Fales, Atwood, Samuel, grant ofland to , ii . 101 ; vi. 43.
False Enrolment, penalty for making, i. 64, 316. False Entry,

executions against officers of revenue, how levied on land, i. 594 .
Executors and Administrators,
revival of suits by and against, i . 90 . entry of goods by, iii. 734. may sue in District of Columbia without
taking out letters there, ii . 758. Exemplification, of public books , & c. See Evi-
dence, p. 60.

at custom-house, penalty for, i. 677, 695 ; iii. 734, 735.
for drawback, i . 694 ; iii. 486. for fishing bounty, i. 694 ; iii. 52. False Lights, penalty for holding out, iv. 116. False Musters, in navy, i. 713 ; ii. 47. in army, ii. 362. False Oaths. See Perjury, p . 131.

Exempts from Militia Duty. See Militia, p. 114.
Exiles from Poland, provision for, iv. 743 ; v. 473.
Expenditures, annual statement of, from executive departments, to be laid before congress, v. 31.
Exploring Expedition, expedition authorized, v. 29.

Falsifying Records, penalty for, i. 86. Fanning, Elisha, pension to, vi. 111 .
Henry, to be discharged from prison, vi. 128, 156.
John B., accounts of, to be settled, vi. 307.
Joshua, Heirs of, allowance to , vi. 730. Farish, Thomas B., $ 149.60 to be paid to, vi.
218 .

publication of account of, v. 534, 645, 691 . | Farlow , Huldah, pension to, vi. 835.

distribution of account of, v. 797.

Farmer, Robert, land title confirmed to repre-

appropriation to pay Lieutenant Wilkes for

sentatives of, vi. 761.

superintending making instruments for, iv. 569.
appropriation for transporting and preserving collections of, v. 420.
officers in, allowed extra pay, v. 636. Exportation,
ofgoods prohibited , (obsolete,) ii. 707. of arms, & c., prohibited, i. 369, 520, 549. Exports, annual statistical reports of, provided for, iii. 541.
Express Mail, postage by, to be in advance , v. 207.
Extortion,
by officers of courts, i . 278 ; iv. 118. by officers of customs, i . 603, 680 ; iii.
696.

Farmers and Mechanics Bank, of Indiana, compromise of claim of United

States upon, iv. 569. of Georgetown,

charter of, iii. 383, 384. extended to 1822, on certain conditions ,
iii. 570.

further extended to 1836, iii. 618.

66

66 " 1838, v. 69.

66

66 " 1840, v. 232.

66

66 " 1844, v. 449, 451 ;

vi. 802.

Farmers Bank of Alexandria, charter of, ii. 629. charter extended on certain terms, iii. 57C,

618 ; v. 69, 232, 449 ; vi . 802.

by officers of United States generally, iv. Farnsworth, Jonas, pension to, vi . 68.

118.

Levi, pension to, vi . 24.

62

GENERAL INDEX .

Farrelly, Terrence, land patent to issue to, vi. | Ferguson, William, pension to, vi . 417 .

498.

B. , judgment against, to be

Farrer, Thomas, claim of, to be settled and paid ,

paid, vi. 750.

vi. 172.

Fernandina, City of,

Farrington, March, pension to, vi. 941 .

lots confirmed to, v. 667.

Farrow, Nimrod, and another, claim of, to be

land confirmed to, v . 667.

examined and suits suspended, vi . 283 . " suit against, to
be dismissed, vi. 331
" and others, claims of representatives of, to be settled, vi . 526.

Ferrell, James, pension to, vi . 417. 2 John, Executors of, authorized to ex-
change land, vi. 328.
Ferribault, J. B. and J., land to be purchased of, v . 365.

" Pharaoh, and his Associates, proceeds Ferris, Ransford Avery, increase of pension to,

of sale of boats to be paid to, vi . 169 .

vi. 114.

Fasting and Humiliation, day of, ii . 786 ; iii. 248.
Fatigue Duty, pay of army on , iii. 488. Fatio, Francis J. , payment to, iv. 147. Faulkner, Edward,
Thomas, grant of land to, ii. 101 ; vi. 43.
Faunse, John W., and another, letters patent to issue to, vi. 807.

Ferrymen, exempted from militia duty, i. 272. Fessenden, Isaac, fine to be refunded to, vi . 841 ,
916 .
Fichon, Lewis Philip A. , grant of land to, vi. 35. Ficklin, George, and another, proceedings
against to be relinquished, vi . 770. Field, George, pension to, vi. 543. - Joseph, land warrant to be issued to , vi.
, Reuben, 65.

Fayetteville, (Arkansas,) grant of lands for the Fielding, Daniel, pension to, vi . 101 .

use of, for schools, &c., vi. 567.

allowance to, for property lost,

Farnum, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 24.

vi. 360.

Feely, Timothy, allowance to representatives of, vi. 738.
Fayetteville, grant of land to, iv. 685. Fees,
of clerks of courts, i. 216, 277, 625 ; iii. 133 ; iv. 8 ; and see Clerks , p. 31 .

Fields, George, arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 655.
Fieri Facias,
appraisement of land levied on, i. 335.
marshal may sell the land delivered to him under appraisement, ii. 61.

of marshals, i. 216, 276 , 624. See Marshal, p. 110.
ofjurors, i. 216, 276, 626. See Jury, p. 92. of witnesses, i. 216, 276, 626. See Wit-
nesses, p. 181. of officers, how recoverable, i. 278. of consuls and vice-consuls , i . 255, 256 ; ii.
204 ; iii. 737.

Fife, James, to be paid for a horse, vi . 592. Fifer, John, authorized to relinquish and enter
land, vi. 629.
Filmore, Henry, pension to, vi . 25 . Finch, Isaac, increase of pension to, vi. 93.
- accounts of, to be settled, vi. 263. William, Bolton, and Elizabeth, names of, changed, vi. 528.

of custom -house officers, &c . , i. 704 ; and

-, Captain William B., payment to, iv. 462.

see Compensation, p . 38.

Findlay, William, payment to, vi . 621 .

of district attorneys. See District Attor- Findley, John, and another, certificates of, to be

neys, p. 49.

liquidated, vi. 392 .

in admiralty suits, i . 332, 419 , 451 , 625. in penal suits, i. 626. when informers to pay, i. 626. of criers and officers of courts, i . 626.
penalty for taking illegal fees . See Extortion, p. 61.
Felony,

Findly, Dr. J. E. B. , allowance to, vi. 661. Fines and Forfeitures,
obsolete act of 1790 for, i. 122 ; continued in force, i. 218, 275, 425, 488.
general act of 1797 for, i . 506 ; limitation ofcontinuance of act repealed, ii. 7.
remission of, where the value is not more

loaning or using the public money to be, v. 389, 439.
misprision of, i. 113.
on the high seas, power of congress to define and punish, i . 14.
Female Orphan Asylum, Georgetown, incorporated, vi. 381. act of in-

than $50 , iv . 597, 598. remission of, where unclaimed goods are
sold, v. 653. remission of those incurred under the acts
prohibiting the importation of slaves, ii. 549. remission ofthose incurred under embargo and non-intercourse acts, ii . 532, 606, 789,

corporation of, ( 1828, c . 88 ,) amended , vi . 492 .

794, 804 ; iii. 92, 197. remission of those incurred under act reg.

2 St. Vincent, grant of land to, vi. 512. Females, not to be imprisoned for debt in District of Columbia, v. 629, 679.
Fenner, Jerah, allowance to, vi . 693. Fenton, John, pension to , vi. 178. Fenwick, Michael, Representatives of, to be paid
for property destroyed, vi. 661, 759. Fergus, John, pension to, vi. 81.

ulating entry of merchandise from adjacent territories , iii. 617, 782. remission of those incurred under collec-
tion acts of 1815 , iii. 233 ; and of 1823, iii. 739.
none to be incurred by a deviation from the forms ofthe collections act of 1799, when substance is complied with, i. 704.
distribution of those under collection laws,

Ferguson, Benjamin B., pension to, vi . 912. James, claim of, to be paid, vi . 333.
and Reid, debentures allowed to , vi . 919

(obsolete ,) i. 48 , 177 , 462 ; (in force,) i. 697. distribution of those under internal revenue
laws, i . 209 , 389, 429, 532

GENERAL INDEX.

63

Fines and Forfeitures, (continued .) distribution of those under registry and en-
rolment laws, i . 298. distribution of those under act respecting
entry of goods from adjacent territories,
i. 617 ; iii. 782. distribution of those incurred under embar-

Fisheries, (continued .) secretary of treasury may authorize surveyor of any port to license ships in, iv.
372, 373. ships in whale fishery, iv. 492 ; v . 370. bounty on vessels in, (obsolete,) i. 27, 260,
533, 692 ; ii. 36, 436 ; (in force, ) iii. 51 ,

go and non-intercourse laws, ii. 533, 606 ;

254, 520. crew tobe three fourths Americans, iii .

iii. 92, 197 , 198. general limitation of suits for, to two years,
i. 119; to five years, v. 322. jurisdiction over suits for, v. 322. limitation of, under collection act of 1799,
i. 696. under collection act of 1790, i. 177.

351 . time of illegal detention for foreign
government to be allowed , iii . 417. provision when vessel is lost, iv. 38. prosecution of, during embargo, ii. 453. note of decisions respecting, iii . 49.

limitation of, under all revenue laws, ii.

special provision as to Edenton, ii. 137.

290, 291 . limitation of, under act of 1813, respecting
employment of seamen, ii . 810, 811. in case of forfeited recognizances, v . 322. Finn, Dennis, allowed to enter certain land, v. |
715. Finney, Elkanah , fishing bounty allowed to, vi.
244. Fire in Alexandria, appropriation for indigent
sufferers by, vi. 356. Fire Companies in District of Columbia, how to
be organized, vi . 687. Insurance Company in Alexandria, incor-
porated, vi . 129. of Alexandria, incor-

treaty provisions respecting, with
France, viii. 16, 18, 192. Great Britain, viii. 56, 82, 248, 249. Russia, viii . 302 . Fisk, Abijah, pension to, vi. 543. 9 Alvarez, purchase money to be refunded to, vi. 796. Eben, allowance to, vi. 428. James, money lost by robbery to be re-
funded to, vi. 441 . Fitch, Moses, pension to , vi. 24. Fitting out Cruisersfrom our Ports,
acts obsolete, i . 383, 497, 520 ; ii. 54 ; ii. 370.
acts in force , iii . 447.

porated, v. 3 ; vi . 627 . ? Potomac, incorporat-
ed, vi . 460. - Engine, to protect the public buildings, iii .
525, 606, 784 ; iv. 266 ; v . 174, 267, 348. - at Norfolk, Sufferers by, payment of bonds
of, delayed , vi. 53. Portsmouth, Sufferers by, payment of
bonds of, delayed, vi. 49, 63. Savannah, Sufferers by, payment of
bonds of, delayed, vi. 241 . Firemen's Insurance Company, incorporated, vi.
694.

Fitzgerald, Aaron, pension to, vi . 451 , 593. Thomas, arrears of pension of, iv.
467 ; vi. 451. Fitzsimmons, George, pension to, vi. 177. Flag of United States, regulation of, i . 341 ; iii.
415 .
Flags and Colors captured, preservation of, iii. 133.
Flaget, Benedict J., duties remitted to, vi. 346, 484.
Flagg, Azariah C., rifle to be presented to, iv. 195.
Flaujac, Garrigues , authorized to locate land,

Firman, Joseph, and others, land title confirmed

vi. 351, 559.

and payments to be repaid to, vi . 308.

Fleming, J. A., land patent to issue to, vi. 726.

Fiscal Year, to commence July 1 , and end June

John S., to be paid for flour, vi. 562.

William A., authorized to surrender a

30, v. 536.
Fish, bounty on exports of, in lieu of drawback,
i. 27, 46, 65, 174 , 182, 232, 260 , 533, 692. drawback on, iii . 50, 254. Fishel, Michael, pension to, vi. 416. Fisher, Andrew, allowance to, for repairs, vi.

land certificate, vi. 479. Flemming, Thomas, pension to, vi . 417. Fletcher, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 23.
Josiah, release of land to, vi . 323. Flinn, Thomas, allowance to the widow and
children of, vi. 57.

892.

Flint, Jonathan, pension to, vi . 658.

--, Coleman, authorized to exchange loca- Floating Batteries, authorized to be built, iii.

tions, vi. 561 . Elisha, and Company, duties refunded to, | vi. 212. George, purchase money to be refunded
to, vi. 316. Henry, Representatives of, allowance to,
vi. 730. Silas D., authorized to locate land, vi . 607.
" " an Indian, location of land confirmed to , vi. 633.
Fisheries, license and enrolment of ships in, (obsolete , ) i. 55 ; (in force,) i. 305. government of seamen in, i. 229 ; ii. 36 ; iii. 2. license of vessels in mackerel fishery, iv. 312 , v. 16.

104, 321 . Flogging abolished, ii. 735 ; v. 322. Flood, John, pension to, vi . 866.
- Martha, duties to be repaid to, vi . 248. William, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 163: -, duty to be repaid to administra-
trix of, vi. 248. Florida Indians, appropriation for sustenance
of, vi. 354. treaty of September 18, 1823, with, vii
224 .
Florida, Territory of, to be taken possession of, iii . 471 , 472, 523 637, 638.
resolution respecting its passing to any foreign power, ii. 666 ; iii. 471 .

64

GENERAL INDEX .

Florida, Territory of, (continued.) temporary government of, iii. 523,637, 638. cession of, to United States, viii . 254.
act to carry into effect treaty of 1819, ceding Florida, iii. 637, 638.
territorial government establishment, iii. 654 .

Florida, Territory of, (continued.) appropriation for public buildings in, v . 323 armed occupation of, v. 502, 671. settlers' rights, how to descend, v . 503. not assignable, v. 503. payment of militia, v. 522, 578, 628, 716, 745, 747 ; vi. 760.

general acts respecting government of, iii. 654, 750 ; iv. 45, 164 , 264, 333, 500, 600 ; v. 263.

note of acts respecting, iii . 523, 654.
note of decisions upon treaty of 1819, iii. 637, 638.

appropriation for advances by inhabitants of West Florida , iii. 560.

note of decisions upon land titles and claims in, iii . 709-717.

change of place of holding courts author Florida, State of,

ized, iv. 241.

admission into the Union, v. 742.

time of session of legislature changed, iv. 403.
appeals and error from courts of, to supreme court of the United States, iii. 752 ; iv. 46, 165, 600.
increase of salary of judges in, iv. 739. archives of, keeper of, iv. 126. compilation of laws of, v. 288.

extent of, v. 743. grant of land to, for seat of government,
schools, &c., v. 788. all laws of United States, not locally inap
plicable, extended to, v . 788. district court established in, v. 788. clerk of courts, v. 788. marshal and attorney, v. 788.

claims under treaty, provided for, iii . 709 , | Florida Peninsula Railroad and Steamboat Com-

768 .

pany, charter of, v. 253.

loan authorized to discharge, iv. 33.

tolls on, v. 254.

seat of government, land for, iv. 30.

Flotilla Service, provisions for, (obsolete,) iii.

law respecting wreckers, iv. 132, 138, 292.

125, 217.

lands given for seminary of learning, iii. | Flour, inspection of, in Alexandria, iv. 44.

756 ; iv. 201 ; v. 63.

Flournoy, Alfred, authorized to enter land in

repair of roads in , iv . 227.

lieu of pension, vi. 353.

land claims in. See Lands, Public, p. 97.

land patents to issue to, vi. 358.

divided into thirteen election districts, iv.

Matthews, and another, exchange of

265.

land reserved for schools in Mississippi, vi.

judges of the superior courts may order ex-

529.

tra terms , iv . 265.

Thomas, judgment against, to be sat-

southern judicial district established, iv.

isfied, vi. 370.

291 .

Flowers, John W., payment to, iv. 576.

provisions as to electors, officers , and mode of making laws, iv. 332.

--, Thomas, duplicate military land warrant to issue to, vi. 374.

apportionment of representation in legisla- Floyd, Charles, land warrant to be issued tc

tive council, iv. 332.

heirs of, vi. 65.

town authorized to be laid off, iv. 357. collection of duties in, iii . 684 ; iv. 43.

Davis, allowance to, for services, vi 341.

assent of congress to acts of, iv. 19 ; v. 253. authorized to open canal, iv. 474.

accounts of, to be settled, vi. 347 -, Perry, pension to, vi. 112.

line between Alabama and Florida to be Fobes, Simon, pension to, vi. 417.

marked, iv. 479.

Foley, Alice L., land claim of, confirmed to, vi.

line between Georgia and Florida to be

808.

marked, iv. 157.

Barnett, and another, authorized to enter

sale of public grounds in St. Augustine

land, vi. 829.

and Pensacola provided for, iv. 550.

Folger, Samuel B., to be paid for work, vi. 916.

canal routes authorized to be surveyed , iv. | Follett, Frederick, pension to, vi. 24.

560 .

Folsom, James B., pension to, vi. 632.

town to be laid off at St. Marks , iv. 664. representation equalized in , iv . 677.

Joseph R. , and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 777.

special terms of court of appeals, v. 5.

Foltz, Frantz Jacob, drawbacks allowed to, vi.

Franklin county added to the middle judi-

21 .

cial district, v. 5.

J. M., pay allowed to, vi. 766.

terms ofthe superior courts for middle district, v. 69.
slaves in, iii. 657, 754. acts of legislative council of, annulled, iv.
138, 167, 333, 403, 677, 740 ; v. 61 , 70. appropriations for internal improvements in,
iv. 752 ; v. 670. lands in. See Lands, Public, p . 94. school fund in , iv . 601.
railroads through public land authorized, iv. 778 ; v . 144, 253.
rations to be delivered to sufferers from In-

Joshua, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 401 . Fons, Widow Joseph, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499. Foote, Gervis, to be paid for stone, vi. 916.
Fooy, John Henry, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.
Forage. See Army, p. 8. allowance in money for, i. 431 ; ii : 134 ; iii. 34.
master of, to be appointed, ii . 698 , 820 ; v. 257, 258.

dian depredations, v. 131 .

no officer to be allowed money in lieu of,

legislative council reorganized , v. 263. new judicial district established, v. 294.

for more horses than he employs in the public service, iii. 34, 35.

GENERAL INDEX .

65

Forbes, Abraham, allowed to enter land, vi. | Foreign Intercourse, (continued .)

647 .

appropriations for . See General Appropri

Elisha, pension to, vi. 67.

ation Acts, &c., i . 128, 299, 345, 467 ; ii.

James Grant, drawbacks allowed to, vi.

202.

813.

with China, v. 624.

Jehiel, and others, duties to be refunded

annual report of expenses of, to be made,

to, vi. 533.

v. 25.

John M. , account of, to be settled, vi . | Foreman, Anthony, claim of, for slaves taken,

159.

to be paid, vi. 480.

-, Ralph B., drawbacks allowed to, vi. 813.

Robert S. , land warrant to be issued to, vi. 308.

William, Heirs of, to be paid for losses, vi. 660.
Force, Peter, allowance to, vi . 814. Ford, James, pension to, vi. 23.
Jonathan W., and others, allowance to, for expenses of suit, vi. 373.
Mahlon, pension to, vi. 111. -, pension to be paid to administra-
tors of, vi. 285.

Forest, William, pay of, vi. 333. Forfeitures. See Fines, p. 62. Forgery and False Utterance. See Counterfeit-
ing, p. 41. Forman, William Gordon, land claim confirmed
to, vi. 248.
Forest, Andrew, to be paid for advances, vi. 870. , Joseph, allowance to, for demurrage,
vi. 323.

Nathan, pension to, vi. 111. -, Peter, allowance to, for property lost, vi. 405 .
Robert G., accounts of, to be settled and paid, vi. 888.
Sophia B. See Mahlon Ford.
William, pension to, vi. 774. Foreign Affairs,
department of, established, i. 28. province of, i. 29.

Forsyth and Hull, payment to be made to, vi 887. Kenzie and, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 225.
R. A., payment to be made to, vi . 887. Robert, grant of money to widow and children of, ii . 407 ; vi. 17.
James H., payment to, vi. 887. Forsythe, Robert A., to be paid for services, vi.
473.

name changed to department of state, i. 68.

William, to be paid for a stable taken, vi. 472.

Foreign Attachment, suits of, by United States, Fort, Alston, pension to, vi. 176.

where a corporation is the debtor, iii. 443. Foreign Coins. See Coins and Currency, p.

Delaware, property lost in, to be paid for, vi. 512.

32 .

Forts and Fortifications,

Foreign Armed Vessels, jurisdiction of United States over, ii . 339, 484.
what ports they may enter, iii. 597. Foreign Commerce. See Commerce, p . 37.
with Great Britain interdicted, (obsolete,) ii. 528, 547, 550, 605, 651 , 763, 789, 794, 804 ; iii. 4, 123, 432.
with France interdicted , (obsolete , ) ii . 528, 547, 550, 605.
suspended with France, (obsolete, ) i . 565, 572, 574, 578, 611 , 613 ; ii. 7, 39.
with British colonies, regulated, iii. 432, 602, 681 , 740, 791 , 792, 796. See Great
Britain, p. 74. for treaties with different countries respect-

punishment of crimes in, i. 113 ; iv. 115. jurisdiction over, cession of, by states. See
Jurisdiction, p. 92. attorney-general to examine title of sites
of those proposed, v. 468, for acts for the defence of harbors, see
Ports and Harbors, p . 136. state expenses on, to be allowed, i . 521 , 555. inspector of, i. 753.
general appropriation acts for building or repairing, i. 345, 367, 521 , 554 ; ii. 443, 453, 496, 516, 547, 661 , 692, 776 ; iii. 633, 686, 783 ; iv. 22, 92, 149, 216, 256, 265, 310, 356, 374, 397, 450, 497, 610, 644, 645, 674, 719 ; v. 77, 284, 361 , 407, 415, 458, 582, 607, 658, 743.

ing, see the titles of those countries. with St. Domingo suspended, (obsolete ,)
ii. 351 , 421.

Foreign Intercourse, provision for, i. 128, 299, 345, 487 ; ii. 202.

correspondence, illegal, with foreign governments, i. 613.

consuls to hold foreign ships' papers, iii . 362.

of foreign ships in our waters, (obsolete,) i. 561 ; ii. 339, 484 ; iii. 226, 597.

establishment and support of public minis-

ters, &c. See Public Ministers, p. 144. acts to preserve neutrality. See Neutrali-

ty, p. 123.

with enemies, prohibited, (obsolete ,) ii. 779 ; iii. 226.

into what ports foreign armed ships to enter, (obsolete ,) iii . 597.

missions to independent nations in America, iii. 678.

VOL. VIII.

9

special acts concerning those at Plattsburg, iii. 205.
Fort Washington, iv. 452. George's Island, (Boston ,) iv. 641 . Fort Monroe, v. 30. Fort Gibson, v. 174. near western boundary of Arkansas,
v. 310. on Florida reef, v. 703. at Annapolis, i. 367. Fortune, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owners, &c., of, vi. 719. Fosdick, Nathaniel F., to be discharged from prison , vi. 97.
Foster, Andrew, relinquishment of money to, ii. 550.
-, Ezekiel, and Company, duties to be refunded to, vi. 602.
Joseph, pension to, vi. 177. Lathrop, pension to, vi. 922. Peter, five years' pay allowed to, vi 540.

66

GENERAL INDEX.

Foster, Walley and, amount of debentures to | France, (continued.)

issue to, vi . 346.

deserters from French ships to be appre

William, increase of pension to, vi. 94.

hended, iv. 160.

S., account of, to be settled, vi.

appropriation to pay claims of, on us, ii

214.

148, 321.

Foundries, authorized, i. 555.
Fountain, Garrett, allowance to, for rent, vi. 292 .

Treaty of February 6, 1778, viii. 6. Article 1. If war should break out between
France and Great Britain , it shall be a

Fouquet, John L., claim of, to be settled and

common cause, viii. 6.

paid, vi . 155.

Art. 2. The essential and direct object of

Fowler, John, allowed to enter land, v. 715 .

this alliance is the independence of the

Theodosius, suit against, discontinued, vi. 47.
William M., pension to, vi . 417.

United States, viii. 8.
Art. 3. Both parties to make every effort to attain the same, viii. 8.

Fox, Benjamin F., appropriation for payment to, vi. 814.

Art. 4. Concurrence in enterprises, viii . 8.

Edward, to be paid for muskets, vi . 240.

Art. 5. If United States shall reduce from

Jacob, pension to, vi. 26. John, allowed to enter land, v. 715. Joel, pension to , vi. 111.

the British power the northern parts of America, or the Islands of Bermudas, they shall be confederated with or be de-

Samuel, pension to, vi. 417. Vessel, allowance to owners and crews of, vi. 669.

pendent on the United States, viii . 8.
Art. 6. France relinquishes all claims to the Islands of Bermudas, or any part of

Fox Indians,

North America, viii. 8.

treaty of September 14, 1815, vii. 135. for treaties with the Sacs and Fox Indians ,

Art. 7. Conquests which shall belong to France, viii. 8.

see Sacs and Fox Indians, p. 151. Foxworthy, William , pension to, vi . 651 . France,

Art. 8. Neither party to conclude a treaty without the consent of the other, viii. 8.
Art. 9. No claim of compensation after the

commerce with, suspended, (obsolete ,) i.

war, viii. 8.

565, 572, 574, 578, 611 , 613 ; ii. 7, 39.

Art. 10. Agreement to admit other powers

commerce with, interdicted, (obsolete ,) ii.

to the alliance, viii. 10.

523, 547, 550, 605.

Art. 11. Mutual guaranty, viii . 10.

treaties with, declared null in 1798, i. 578. obsolete acts against depredations of, i.

Art. 12. Guaranty, when to commence, viii. 10.

561, 565, 572, 574, 578, 611 , 624, 743 ;

Art. 13. Ratification , viii. 10.

ii. 7, 39.

Note of the treaties and conventions be-

payment of claims which were assumed by United States, ii. 247.

tween the United States and France, viii. 6.

appropriation for, not to go to sinking fund, ii. 348.

Treaty of Amity and Commerce with, February 6, 1778, viii. 12.

payment of claims under Bourdeaux

Article 1. Peace and friendship between

embargo, ii . 381.

the two nations, viii. 14.

correspondence with our ministers to, to be published and distributed , i. 612.

Art. 2. Neither party to grant favors to other nations which shall not become

act to carry into effect the treaty of 1788

common to the other party, viii. 14.

concerning consuls, i . 254.

Art. 3. Subjects of the king of France en-

act to carry into effect the treaty of com-

titled to the same privileges in the Unit-

merce and navigation with, of 1822, iii. 747.

ed States as the most favored nations, viii. 14.

as to discriminating duties on goods or vessels of, see Discriminating Duties, p. 49.

Art. 4. Citizens of United States to be en-
titled to the same privileges in the dominions of France as the most favored

act to carry into effect the treaty of 1831 with, iv. 574.

nations, viii. 14. Art. 5. Particular exemption , viii. 14.

commissioners of claims to be appointed, iv. 575.

Art. 6 and 7. Both parties to protect vessels of the citizens of the other in her

their duties and powers, iv. 574, 575. duration of commission extended , iv.
679, 778.

jurisdiction, to restore them when captured, and to convoy them in certain cases, viii. 16.

certain papers to be delivered to , iv. 668 .

Art. 8. The king of France to aid the United States to make treaties with the

clerical error in award of, respecting the claim of the Union Bank of Ma-

Barbary powers, viii . 16. Art. 9. Subjects of neither party to fish in

ryland, to be corrected , v. 200. instalments accruing to be loaned out until
report of commissioners, iv. 628.

the dominions of the other, viii. 16. Art. 10. Citizens of the United States not
to disturb the subjects of France in their

president authorized to take possession of

right of fishing on the Banks of New-

the territories ceded by , ii. 245 .

foundland, viii. 16.

loan to pay for them, ii. 245.

Art. 11. Citizens of the United States ex-

provision as to certain bills drawn by John

empted from droit d'aubaine, and may

Armstrong, minister to France, ii . 498, 777.

dispose of their estates. Subjects of France have similar privileges, viii. 18

GENERAL INDEX.

67

France, (continued.) Two articles respecting duties on goods originally agreed to, rescinded, viii . 18 . Art. 12. Ships suspected shall exhibit passports and certificates, viii . 20. Art. 13. Proceedings in case of contraband goods, viii. 20. Art. 14. Goods found in an enemy's ship may be confiscated , unless put on board before the declaration of war, or within two months after, viii . 20. Art. 15. Ships of war and privateers to do no injury to either party. Punishment for so doing, and reparation to be made, viii. 22. Art. 16. Merchandise rescued from pirates to be restored, viii. 22. Art. 17. Prizes may be carried into the ports of either party. No shelter to be given to the captors of prizes taken from either party, viii . 22. Art. 18. In case of shipwreck, relief to be given, viii. 22. Art. 19. Vessels in distress, forced into
ports of either party, to be protected and permitted to depart, viii . 22. Art. 20. In case of war, six months to be allowed to the citizens or subjects to re-
move with their effects, viii. 24. Art. 21. Citizens or subjects of neither
party to take commissions or letters of
marque from any foreign power or state with whom the other party is at war, nor act as privateers, viii. 24. Art. 22. Foreign privateers not to be allowed to be fitted out or to sell their
prizes in the ports of the other party, viii. 24.
Art. 23. Liberty for either party to trade with a nation at war with the other party. Free ships make free goods, excepting contraband articles, viii. 26.
Art. 24. What goods shall be deemed contraband, viii. 26.
Art. 25. Ships or vessels to be furnished with sea-letters or passports and certificates, viii. 26.
Art. 26. Vessels coming on the coast, or entering the ports of either party, how to be treated, viii. 28.
Art. 27. How vessels are to be treated if
met by ships of war or privateers, viii . 28.
Art . 28. No search after goods are put on board of vessels, except in case offraud, viii. 28.
Art. 29. Consuls to be allowed in the ports of either party, viii . 28.
Art. 30. Free ports, viii. 28. Art. 31. Ratification, viii. 30. Convention with, respecting Consuls and
Vice-Consuls, November 14, 1788, viii. 106 . Article 1. Consuls to present commissions, and to be entitled to an exequatur, viii. 106 .
Art. 2. Privileges of consuls, viii. 106. Art. 3. Consuls may appoint agents, viii.
108. Art. 4. Consuls may establish a chancery ,
viii 108.
Art . 5. Power and duty of consuls, viii . 108 .

France, (continued .) Art. 6. Consuls to receive declarations,
&c., from captains, of losses at sea, viii. 110.
Art. 7. Power of consuls in cases of shipwreck, viii. 110.
Art. 8. Power of consuls respecting vessels of their own nation , viii . 112.
Art. 9. Power of consuls in regard to deserters, and mode of proceeding, viii. 112.
Art. 10. Citizens amenable for crimes to
the judges of the country , viii. 112. Art. 11. How to proceed when offenders
withdraw on board their vessels, viii. 112.
Art. 12. Disputes between citizens in a foreign country to be settled by consuls, viii. 114.
Art. 13. Tribunals to decide commercial
affairs, viii. 114. Art. 14. Citizens exempted from personal
service in places of settlement, viii . 114. Art. 15. If either party grant greater con-
sular privileges to another nation, they shall be common to both, viii. 114. Art. 16. This convention shall be in force
during twelve years, viii. 114. Convention between the French Republic and
the United States, September 30, 1800, viii. 178.
Article 1. Firm , inviolable, and universal
peace between the French Republic and the United States of America, viii . 178.
Art. 2. Treaty of 6th of February, 1788, and convention of the 14th November,
1788, abrogated, viii. 178. Art. 3. Captured public ships to be re-
stored, viii. 178.
Art. 4. Captured property, if not definitively condemned , to be restored . Form
of the passport to merchant ships . Proof of captured vessels restored . Proof with respect to cargo. This article to take effect from the signature of this convention, viii. 178.
Art. 5. Debts due by individuals of either nation may be paid, &c. , viii . 180.
Art. 6. Commerce between the parties to be free, viii. 180.
Art. 7. The citizens of either country to be at liberty to devise their property, and to have the right to take, to give , or devise, without naturalization , viii . 182.
Art. 8. In case of war between the two
nations, six months to be allowed to remove property, viii. 182. Art. 9. No debts to be sequestered or confiscated in case of war, viii . 182. Art. 10. Commercial agents may be ap-
pointed. Agents to act after being furnished with exequatur, viii. 182. Art. 11. No more duties to be paid than the duties paid by the most favored nation, viii. 182. Art. 12. Citizens of France and of the United States to be at liberty to trade
from enemy's ports to the ports of either country, unless blockaded . Notice of blockade to be given before capture of vessels, and vessels to be permitted to go to other ports, viii. 184. Art. 13. Contraband. Vessels laden with
contraband goods , and the residue ofthe

68

GENERAL INDEX .

France, (continued .)
cargo, not to be affected by the prohibited goods, viii. 184. Art. 14. Free ships make free goods ; not
contraband, although belonging to an enemy. Persons not military to be protected in free ships, viii. 184. Art. 15. Confiscation of free goods laden on board of an enemy's vessel after war is declared, viii. 186.
Art. 16. Passports to be exhibited , and also certificates of the quality of goods, viii. 186.
Art. 17. Intime of war, the ships ofthe neutral nation to be furnished with passports mentioned in the fourth article . If con-
traband goods found on board are delivered up, the ship may pursue her voyage. If there is no passport, and other proof of the neutrality of the vessel , then no condemnation . Ifthe master of a vessel dies, the ship and cargo shall be secure, viii. 186.
Art. 18. Ships of either nation, if examined at sea, boats to be sent, and ships or war and privateers to remain out of cannon shot, viii. 188.
Art. 19. Ships under convoy not to be examined, viii. 188.
Art. 20. Receipts to be given for the papers of captured vessels. Sale of captured vessels not to be made without lawful condemnation, viii . 188.
Art. 21. Master, commander, or supercargo, not to be removed. Treatment of
crew and passengers , viii. 188 . Art. 22. Prizes to be condemned by estab
lished prize courts, viii. 190 . Art. 23. Damages by men-of-war or priva-
teers to be paid. Commanders of privateers to give security, viii. 190. Art. 24. Armed vessels and prizes not to pay duty, and not to be examined , viii. 190. Art. 25. Restrictions on foreign privateers, viii. 190. Art. 26. Pirates to be prohibited entering the ports of either nation. The ships
and goods taken by pirates to be seized, viii. 192.
Art. 27. The fisheries of either party not to be interfered with. Ratifications ex-
changed within six months, viii. 192. Second article of the treaty expunged .
This convention to be in force for eight years, viii . 192. Ratification by the first consul of France, declaring the convention to be in force for eight years, viii . 194. Treaty between the United States ofAmerica and the French Republic, April 30th, 1803, viii. 200.
Article 1. Recital of the French treaty with Spain, of October 1 , 1800. Retrocession from Spain to France of the province of Louisiana. Cession of Louisiana to the United States, viii . 200.
Art. 2. Islands, & c ., included in the cession by the preceding article, viii . 202.
Art. 3. Inhabitants of the ceded territory incorporated with the Union of the Unit-
ed States, upon certain principles, viii. 202 .

France, (continued . ) Art. 4. Commissary to be sent from France to receive the province of Louisiana, and
pass it over to the United States, viii. 202.
Art. 5. When the commissaries of the United States shall have possession, viii. 202.
Art. 6. United States to execute certain Indian treaties agreed upon between Spain and the Indians, viii . 202.
Art. 7. Vessels of France and Spain, laden with the productions of their respective countries, entitled to the same privileges with vessels of the United States, during
the space of twelve years. No other vessels entitled to the same privilege dur-
ing the said period, viii. 204. Art. 8. Afterthe expiration of twelve years,
vessels of France to be on the footing of the most favored nations, viii . 204. Art. 9. The convention providing for the payment of debts to citizens of the United States to be ratified when this treaty is ratified. Another convention to be
ratified at the same time, viii. 204. Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged
within six months, viii . 204. Convention with, April 30, 1803, viii. 206. Article 1. United States engage to pay
sixty millions of francs to France, &c., viii. 206. Art. 2. A stock to be created equal to sixty millions of francs, & c. When the first payment shall be made . French government selling stock in Europe to do it upon the best terms for the United States, viii. 206.
Art. 3. Value of the dollar of the United States fixed. Ratifications to be ex-
changed in six months, viii . 208. Convention with, April 30, 1803, viii. 208. Article 1. Debts due from France to citi.
zens of the United States to be paid ac cording to fixed regulations, viii. 208. Art. 2. Debts provided for by the preceding article, viii. 208.
Art. 3. How the said debts are to be paid, viii. 210.
Art. 4. What debts are comprehended by the preceding articles, viii . 210.
Art. 5. To what cases they are particularly to apply, viii. 210.
Art. 6. Ministers plenipotentiary of the United States to appoint commissioners to examine claims provisionally, viii. 210.
Art. 7. To examine the claims , & c. , and to certify those which ought to be admitted, viii. 210.
Art. 8. To examine those not prepared for liquidation, viii . 212.
Art. 9. The debts to be discharged at the treasury of the United States with interest, viii. 212.
Art. 10. Commercial agent of United States at Paris to assist in the examination of claims, &c. Rejection of a claim to exempt the United States from paying it, viii. 212.
Art. 11. Decisions to be made in one year, and no reclamations afterwards, viii. 212
Art. 12. Claims since 30th September,

GENERAL INDEX .

69

France, (continued .) 1800, may be pursued, and payment demanded, viii . 212.
Art. 13. Ratifications to be exchanged in six months, viii. 212.
Convention of Navigation and Commerce with, June 24, 1822, viii. 278.
Article 1. Articles, produce, & c. , of the United States imported in American vessels to pay duties as if imported in French vessels, viii. 278.
Art. 2. Articles, produce, and manufactures of France imported in French vessels to pay duties as if imported in vessels of the United States, viii. 278.
Art. 3. Goods for transit or exportation not
to pay a discriminating duty in either country, viii . 278. Art. 4. Quantities composing the ton of merchandise of wines, brandies, silks,
and dry goods, cotton, tobacco, ashes, rice, & c., viii. 278. Art. 5. Duties of tonnage, &c., not to exceed in France five francs per ton on American vessels, viii . 230. Art. 6. Consuls and vice-consuls of either
nation in the other may cause the arrest of deserters, and detain them for three months, viii. 280. Art. 7. Convention to be in force two years from October 1 , 1822. Extra du-
ties at the end of two years to be diminished by one fourth, and so from year to year, &c., viii . 280 . Art. 8. Convention to be ratified in one
year, viii. 280. Separate article, viii. 282. Extra duties levied on either side to be re-
funded, viii. 282.
Convention with, July 4 , 1831 , viii . 430. Article 1. Indemnity to American citizens,
viii. 430.
Art. 2. Payments, viii . 430. Art. 3. Indemnity to the French govern-
ment, viii. 430.
Art. 4. Payments, viii. 430. Art. 5. Other claims by citizens of either
nation may be prosecuted in the respective countries before competent tribunals, viii. 432.
Art. 6. Reciprocal agreement to communicate documents, viii. 432.
Art. 7. Duties on French wines. Recla-
mations under the eighth article of the treaty of Louisiana abandoned in consideration of the stipulations as to duty on French wines, viii. 432. Art. 8. Ratifications to be exchanged within eight months, viii. 432. Convention with, for the Surrender of Criminals, November 9, 1843, viii. 580. Article 1. Persons accused of crimes to be given up to justice , viii. 582. Art. 2. Persons delivered up must be charged with certain specified crimes, viii. 582.
Art. 3. Surrender, by whom to be made, viii. 582.
Art. 4. Expenses to be borne by the party making requisition , viii. 582 .
Art. 5. Not to apply to crimes heretofore committed, or political offences, viii. 582.
Art. 6. This convention to continue till

France, (continued .) abrogated . Ratifications to be exchanged within six months, viii . 582.
Add. Art. The crimes of robbery and burglary defined, viii . 617.
agreement with, of July 16, 1782, respecting supplies to the United States, viii. 614 .
France, N. J., allowed to enter certain land, v. 715 .
Francher, James, pension to, vi. 803.
Francis, John, to be discharged from prison, vi. 170 .
Miller, pension to, vi. 727. Tench, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 252.
Francisco, Peter, pension to, vi. 233. Frank, John, pay of a soldier allowed to, vi. 32. Franking Privilege,
members of congress, i . 237, 361, 737; ii. 600 ; iii. 265 ; iv. 110, 629 ; v. 732, 735.
president, i. 237, 361 , 737 ; ii . 600 ; iv. 110 ; v. 739.
ex-presidents, v. 739. vice- presidents, i . 237, 737 ; ii. 600 ; iv.
110 ; v. 733. postmaster-general, i . 237, 362, 737 ; ii.
600 ; iv. 110 ; v. 734. secretary of senate, i. 237, 361 , 737 ; ii.
600 ; iii. 265 ; iv . 110, 238 ; v. 735. clerk of house of representatives, i. 237,
361 , 737 ; ii. 600 ; iii. 265 ; iv. 110, 238 ; v. 735. commissioner of pensions, iv. 622, 779 ; v. 187, 369, 597.
delegates to congress, i. 402 ; ii . 4, 88, 130, 600 ; iv . 110 ; v. 732, 735.
officers in the departments,
treasury, i. 218, 237, 361 , 737 ; ii. 600 ; iii. 368 ; iv. 110, 416.
war, i. 475, 738 ; ii. 600. navy, i. 610, 738 ; ii . 600 ; iv. 238 ; v.
580.
state, v. 600. heads of departments,
navy, i. 569, 738 ; ii. 600 ; iv. 110. state , i. 237, 362, 738 ; ii . 600 ; iv. 110. treasury, i. 237, 361 , 737 ; ii . 600 ; iv.
110 . war, i. 237, 362, 738 ; ii. 600 ; iv. 110. attorney-general, ii. 191 , 600 ; iv. 110. commissioner of land office, ii. 718 ; iv. 110. commissioner of revenue , i. 281, 362, 737, 738 ; iii. 39, 139. commissioner of patents, iv. 238 ; v. 118. president of the senate, and speaker of the house, iii. 548 ; iv. 320. of officers of internal revenue , i . 738 ; ii
40 ; iii. 240, 305. postmasters, i. 737 ; ii. 599 ; iv. 110 ; v.
734.
governors of states, iv. 740 ; v. 735. officers in the army,
paymaster, ii . 277, 600 ; iv. 238.
commissary-general, ii . 820 ; iv. 238. inspector, ii. 277, 600, 785, 820 ; iv.
238 .
superintendent of supplies, iii. 4. adjutant-general, ii . 785 , 820 ; iv . 238 state adjutant-generals, iv . 113. medical officer, ii. 820. quartermaster-general, iv. 238.

70

GENERAL INDEX .

Franking Privilege, (continued .)

Free Ships,

George Washington, i. 512, 738. Martha Washington, ii. 19. John Adams, ii. 102 , 600. Mrs. Harrison, v. 461 , 739. Thomas Jefferson , ii . 526, 552, 600. James Madison, iii. 350.
Dolly P. Madison, v . 107, 739. Charles Carroll, iv. 320.
penalty for counterfeiting franks , i . 238, 362 ; iv. 110.
limitation of time and weight to members of congress, ii. 600 ; iii. 265, 266 ; iv. 110, 629 ; v. 733, 735.
penalty for franking letters of other persons, ii. 600 ; iv. 110.
accounts to be kept of postage paid by offi-
cers of government, v. 734 , 735.
franking privileges (except in certain cases) abolished , v . 734, 735 , 739.
certain documents may be sent in the mail free of postage,

treaty stipulations, that free ships shall make free goods, with Algiers, viii. 224. Brazil, viii. 393.
Central America, viii . 328. Chile, viii. 436. Colombia, viii . 310. Ecuador, viii. 540. France, viii. 24, 184. Mexico, viii. 416. Peru-Bolivia, viii. 490. Prussia, viii . 90. Spain, viii. 146. Sweden, viii. 64. Tripoli, viii. 154, 214. Tunis, viii. 157. Venezuela, viii. 472. Freedom, of the press and of speech secured, i. 21 .
Freeland, Benjamin, authorized to exchange land , vi . 385 .

presidents messages, ii. 505, 554 , 614, Freelove, David, pension to, vi. 866.

667, 787 ; iii. 48, 474.

the Snow, exportation of goods saved

copies of census, iv . 429, 608.

from the wreck of, permitted, vi. 16.

newspapers, i . 238, 362 ; ii. 600 ; iv. Freeman, Edgar, pension to, vi. 516.

110 ; v. 733.

Lieutenant John, appropriation for, i.

public documents, iii. 133, 537, 539,

285

649 ; iv. 495 .

Pearson, pension to, vi. 568.

state laws and reports, iv. 740 ; v. Freligh, George, claim of, to be settled and

735.

paid, vi. 155.

letters respecting vaccination , ii. 806. note of acts respecting, ii. 599. Franklin, Benjamin, sensibility of congress to the tribute of the
national assembly to his memory, i . 225. acceptance of his staff, v. 716. pension to, vi. 829. Franklin Insurance Company, incorporated , vi. 203.

French, Samuel, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 93,
417.
Thomas, allowance to, vi. 223. Vessels, certain, duties remitted to the owners of, vi. 18. Fresh Water, modes of obtaining, from salt water, to be printed on the back of clearances, i. 286.*

-, grant of further Frey, Federick, and Company, drawback al-

powers to, vi. 704.

lowed to, vi 758.

Franzoni, Guiseppe, allowance to administra- Fridge, Alexander, land claim confirmed to, vi.

trix of, vi. 620.

432 .

-, Virginia, allowance to, vi. 620. Fraser, Angus O. , and others, payment to, vi.
249.
James, allowance to, for work, vi . 391 .
John, forfeiture to be refunded to , vi. 919 .

Friendship, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owner, officers, &c., of, vi. 616.
Frink, John, pension to, vi. 231 . Frisbie, Levi, pension to, vi. 177. Frisby, Richard, allowance to , for property de-
stroyed, vi. 743. Fritters, Travise, pension to, vi. 656.

Frasier, Charles M., to be paid for a house de- | Frizzini, Louis, land claim confirmed to repre-

stroyed, vi . 642.

sentatives of, v. 493.

John, and Company, excess of duty to Frizzle, Elisha , increase of pension to, vi. 68, 85.

be repaid to , vi. 647.

Frost, Isaiah, payment to, iv. 777.

Robert, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.
Frauds, on Bank of United States, (obsolete,) i . 573 ; ii. 423. on new Bank of United States, iii. 275, 509 ; iv. 120. on government of United States, iii. 771 . in entries at custom-house . See False En-

Joseph, pension to, vi. 24. Frontiers,
trade on, regulated , i . 701 , 702, 703, 704 ; ii. 252 ; iii. 616, 781.
defence of, iv. 533, 652 ; v. 67, 209, 351 . preservation of peace on, iv. 729. foreign and coasting trade on the north,
north-eastern, and north-western frontiers, regulated, iv. 487.

try, p. 61 . Frazar, George, and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 699 .
Frazee, John, payment to, for bust of John Jay, iv. 474.
Solomon, released from a judgment, vi. 151 .
" John, pension to, vi. 154.

Frothingham, Joshua P., allowance to, for property destroyed, vi. 546.
Fry, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 113. " Henry, pension to, vi. 870. John, and another, claim of, to be settled, vi. 308 .
Frye, William W., exempted from duties, vi 739.

Thomas, pension to, vi. 737.

Fugate, Thomas, pension to, vi. 177.

GENERAL INDEX .

71

Fugitives from Justice, arrest and return of, i . 302.

Garner, John, pension to , vi. 113 Garnishees of Corporations,

in District of Columbia, ii. 116. on board foreign armed vessels, ii. 340.

suable by United States, iii. 443. proceedings in such suits, iii. 443 .

constitutional provision respecting, i. 18. Fugitivesfrom Service,
constitutional provision as to, i. 18. arrest and return of, i. 302. Fuller, A., appropriation for, v. 171.
Daniel, pension to, vi. 566. Farly, exempted from imprisonment, vi. 272.

Garrard, William, $1500 to be paid to, vi. 109 allowance to, vi. 174.
Garretson, Samuel, pension to , vi. 3.
Garrett, Alexander, pension to, vi. 26. Garret, Joab, allowed to withdraw a land entry,
ii. 556.
Garrow, Samuel H. , interest remitted to, vi. 872.

John B., pension to, vi. 177. Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 417. Stephen, pension to, vi . 23, 417. Fulton, John, grant of land to, ii. 712. Robert, claim of his heirs, referred , v. 133 .
Funded Debt. See Public Debt, p. 144. Funk, Lieutenant, medal for bravery, ii. 830. Furloughs, in army, ii. 361. Furney, Abel, increase of pension to, vi. 68. Furniture, tax or duty on , iii. 186, 264.

Garsed, Joshua, patent right of, vi. 270. Gasney, Peter, allowance to, for a horse lost,
vi. 429.
Gass, Patrick, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.
Gassett, David, bounty, arrearages, &c., of, to be paid, vi. 357.
Gaston, Joseph, pension to, vi. 549. Gates, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 418.
Darius, account of, to be settled, vi. 72. Gertrude, amount of certificates to be
paid to, vi. 521 .

G.
Gadd, Thomas, pension to, vi. 179. Gage, Abner, increase of pension to, vi. 77. Guines, Major- General, thanks of congress for
good conduct at Erie, iii. 247.

Henry, increase of pension to, vi . 77. Gatlin , Stephen, pension to, vi. 611 . Gaugers and Weighers,
pay of, i. 678. duties of, i. 45, 707 ; iii . 306. Gay, Abel, and another, accounts of, to be set

William D., lands released to, vi. 519. Galaxy, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners,
&c., of, vi. 777. Gale, Isaac, pension to, vi . 727.

tled and paid, vi . 679. David, grant of land to, vi. 43. Orris, pension to, vi. 636.
Gayle, George W., allowance to, vi. 776.

William, patent right renewed to, vi . 895. Galena, to be laid out, iv. 334 ; v. 25. Gallespie, James, pension to, vi. 82. Galleys, to be built, i. 376, 556, 569.

Gazzam, Audley H. , land patent to issue to, vi. 822.
Taylor, and Jones, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 37.

Galliopolis, grant of lands to French inhabitants of, i . 442 ; ii. 350 ; vi. 35, 59.
Gallop, William, pension to, vi . 515. Gallup, Andrew , increase of pension to, vi. 84. Gamage, William, pension to, vi . 418. Gamble, Abraham, pension to, vi. 83.
" Abram, arrears of pension to, vi. 102. Archibald, authorized to exchange land
certificate, vi. 529.

Gee, Henry, authorized to enter land, vi. 857. Geesey, Valentine, allowance to, for work, vi.
914.
Geller, George, pension to, vi. 417. Gelston, David, credits to be allowed to execu-
tor of, vi. 728. , payment to, iii. 423. " accounts of, to be settled, vi.
854 .

--, John M., to be paid for rations, vi. 675.
Lieutenant Peter, medal for bravery of, iii. 246.

M. See David Gelston, vi . 728. General Armstrong, Brig, prize money allowed
to officers, & c . , of, v. 158, 401 ; vi . 603. General ofArmy, appointment of, i . 752.

Gannett, Deborah, allowance to heirs of, vi. 735.
Gaols, the states requested to grant the use of their gaols, i. 96. marshal may hire where states do not grant their gaols, i. 225 ; iii. 647. treatment of convicts in, iv. 118, 739, 777 ; v. 385.
Garden, Alexander, full pay of lieutenant allowed to, vi. 380.
Gardiner, Frances, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 705 .

General Greene, Frigate, purchase of timber for rebuilding, ii. 699.
General Issue,
when it may be pleaded with specification of defence,
in actions against officers of customs, i. 43, 170, 209, 678 ; iii. 397.
in actions under patent laws, i. 111 , 322.
in actions respecting copyrights, i. 125, 126.
under neutrality act, ii. 342. under embargo act, iii. 91.

Lyceum, public documents presented to, iv. 136.

under the act prohibiting intercourse with enemies, iii. 199.

Gardner, Ebenezer, grant of land to , ii . 101 ; vi . | 43.

" Jared, exonerated from a penalty, vi . | 78

-

Peregrine, allowance to, for a horse

lost, vi. 566.

Garie, Madum , land claim confirmed to, vi. 499 .

General Jackson, Ship, owners of, released from duties, vi . 299.
General Land Office, established, ii . 716 ; iv . 11. reorganized, v. 107. recorder of, v. 111. solicitor of, v. 111 ; office abolished, v. 662

72

GENERAL INDEX.

General Land Office, (continued .) secretary to sign patents, v. 111. certified copies from , v. 111. monthly returns of receivers to, v. 111 . office hours, v. 112. salaries of officers, v. 111 , 112. clerks in, reduced to sixty, v. 754. franking privilege of commissioner of, ii. 718 ; iv. 110.
Geneva, regulations of distilleries of, (obsolete,) i. 720.
Gentry, William, authorized to exchange land, vi. 377.
George, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners and crew of, vi. 808. Moses Sweat, pension to, vi. 23.
Georgetown, authorized to build a dam, ii. 310. charter, ii. 332 ; iv. 77.
specific grant of powers, ii. 334, 335 ; v. 497 .
streets in, ii. 195, 335, 538 ; iii. 1 ; vi. 683.
recorder to be one of the board of aldermen, ii. 538.
election of mayor by the people, iv. 426. sale of property for taxes, iv. 77, 426. appropriation to assist in building a draw,
iv. 402.
appropriation to assist in improving navigation ofthe Potomac, iv. 646.
limits of, ii. 335 , 537 ; iv. 140, 517 ; v. 497. power of levy court in, iv. 183. subscription to Chesapeake and Ohio Canal,
iv. 294 ; v. 31 , 32. bills of, iv. 742. fines, &c ., recoverable before any justice
of the peace , v. 449. an act for an addition to, repealed ,
vi. 280.
limits of, to be extended, vi. 937. Georgetown College, authorized to confer de-
grees, vi. 152. -, grant of land to, vi. 538. -, incorporated, vi. 912.
Georgetown, Trustees of Presbyterian Congregation in, incorporated, ii. 356.
Georgetown and Alexandria Turnpike Company, charter of, ii. 539.
Georgetown and Leesburg Turnpike Company, charter of, iii. 12 ; iv. 177.
Georgetown and Potomac Bridge Company, authorized to levy money, ii. 648 ; and see ii. 310.
Georgetown Free School and Orphan Asylum, incorporated, vi. 538.
Georgetown Lancaster School Society, incorporated, vi. 105.
Georgetown Water Company, incorporated, vi. 135 .
Geoghegan, MWoislelsi,am, } payment to, vi . 185.
Georgia, assent of congress to acts of, i . 184, 189, 243, 463 ; ii. 18, 484 , 653 , 820 ; iii. 125, 331, 665, 683.
settlement with, respecting Mississippi territory, i. 549 ; ii. 69 ; iii. 116.
fourth article of treaty of United States with Creek Indians to be carried into effect, iv. 721 .
payment to, under act of cession , ii. 235 ; iii. 118, 359

Georgia, (continued. ) settlement of, and indemnification for land claims under, iii. 116. repayment of part of direct tax on, iii. 370 line between Georgia and Florida to be marked, iv . 157. assent of, requested to the formation of two states in the Mississippi territory, ii. 786.
payment of her militia claim, iv, 215, 397, 680 ; v. 504, 598.
Georgia Company, stock to be delivered to, iii. 116.
Georgia Mississippi Company, stock to be delivered to, iii. 116.
Georgia Railroad and Banking Company, duties to be refunded to , vi. 734 .
German Benevolent Society, incorporated, vi. 839.
Gerock, Samuel, pension to, vi. 416. Gerodelle, John, pension to, vi. 609. Gerry, Elbridge, monument to be erected over
his tomb, iii. 777.
Gervais, John G., land patent to issue to, i. 442.
Gevelot, N., appropriation for, iv. 362. Ghent, commissioners under treaty of, appoint-
ment and duties, iii . 640 ; iv. 219, 269. Gibault, Peter, grant of land to, i. 222.
Gibbon, James, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 551.
Gibbs and Channing, duties paid by, to be refunded, vi. 240. -, Elizabeth, pension to, vi. 863. -, George, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 19. Samuel, increase of pension to, vi. 85. loan certificates to be liquidated, vi. 576.
Widow of, allowance to be made to, vi. 637.
Simeon, pension to , vi. 91 . William P., certificate to be paid to, vi. 504.
Gibson, Abigail, pension to, vi. 911 . Alexander, pension to, vi . 690. County, Indiana, school lands to be se-
lected in , vi. 851. Edward R., allowance for services, vi.
362. -, George, land warrant to be issued to,
vi. 65.
James, pension to, vi. 341. Giddons, Edward, allowance for damages to
property of, vi . 146 . Giesy, Valentine, appropriation for, iv. 769. Giffin, David, to be paid for damage to fences,
vi. 303.
Gilbert, Burr, pension to, vi. 25. " increase of pension to, vi. 84.
" Ephraim F., claim of, to be settled and paid , vi. 440 .
pension to, vi . 651 .
Jacob B., to be paid for a house destroyed, vi. 625.
John, pension to, vi. 91 , 139. Joseph, arrears of pension to, vi. 611. Marinus W., claims of, to be settled and paid, vi. 379, 621 , 622. Thomas, pension to, vi. 418.
Giles, Aquila , claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 230.
Gilespie, Menzies, authorized to surrender land warrant, vi. 762.

GENERAL INDEX .

73

Gilham, Ann, allowed to locate land, iii. 219 Gill, Whitford, allowance to, for a boat, vi. 559. Gillett, Joseph, pension to, vi. 177.
Gillis, Thomas H., appropriation for, iv. 148. Gilman, Joshua, pension to, vi . 23.
" Samuel, pension to, vi. 26. Gilmore, David, and others, judgment against,
released to, vi. 323. pension to, vi. 717.
Joseph, pension to, vi. 113. Gilson, Thomas D. , to be paid for services, vi.
887 .
Giraud, J. P., relinquishment of money to, ii. 550 .
Girault, John, allowed to enter land without payment, vi. 269.
Girod, John F., land patent to be issued and money refunded to, vi. 519.

Goodwin, Daniel, account of, to be settled, vi. 545 .
9 Elizabeth, seven years' half-pay al lowed to representatives of, vi. 590.
Uriah, pension to , vi . 24. Goolsby, Reuben, pension to, vi. 178. Gordon, Charles, appropriation for payment to,
v. 348 ; vi. 814. and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 606, 895. George, land claim confirmed to, vi . 598. John and Moses, allowance to, for dam .
ages, vi. 146.
M. S., payment to, vi. 599. -, Patience, Representatives of, certificate loan to be paid to, vi. 378.
Samuel, duties to be refunded to, vi. 58. Gordon's Digest, subscription to, iv. 334.

Gist, Captain Henry, accounts of, to be settled , Gore, William, duties on carriage of, remitted,

vi. 211.

vi. 161.

-, Spencer C., allowance to, for services, vi. 772.
Glascock, Thomas, allowance to representatives of, vi. 751.
Glass, John, land to be relinquished to, vi. 443.

Gorril, Andrew, pension to, vi. 305. Gott, George, and others, fishing bounty allowed
to, vi. 641. Goudran, Nicholas, authorized to locate land,
vi. 668.
Gough, John, land patent to issue to, vi. 467.

Glaubeck, Baron de, pay of captain allowed to, vi. 1 .
Glazier, Asa, pension to, vi. 176. Gleason, Windsor, pension to, vi . 23. Glen, Elias, allowance to, for services, vi. 322. Glover, Cread, allowance to, for a horse lost, vi .
409.
-, William, pension to, vi. 911. Gnadenhutten, town of, to be laid out in lots, iv.
57.
Goddard, Nathaniel, appropriation for the benefit of, vi. 104.
Godenberger, Adam, pension to, vi . 26.

Gould, Asa, pension allowed to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 115.
Benjamin, pension to, vi. 25. William P., allowance to, for services, vi. 345.
Gove, George B. R., allowance to, vi. 301. --, Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 4. Government of United States, seat of, provided
for, i . 14, 130, 214 ; ii. 55. Governors of States, franking privilege of, iv.
740 ; v. 735. Governors of Territories. See the titles of the
different territories.

Godfroy, Gabriel, and another, land patent to issue to, vi. 413. allowance to,

for property destroyed, vi. 534. to be paid for property de-
stroyed, vi. 450. Louis, and another, value of land
granted to, to be ascertained, vi . 726. Goetz, Frederick, and another, claim of, to be
settled, vi. 334.

Goggin, William L. , appropriation for, v. 765. Going, Daniel W. , pension to, vi . 804.
Preston, payment to, vi. 784. Goldsmith, Jeremiah, pension to, vi. 652.

Morris, and another, to be paid for services, vi. 308. Gonzales, Andrea, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

Bastien, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499 .

Good Behavior, security demandable for, by judges of United States courts, i . 609.
Good Friends, Ship, forfeiture remitted to owners of, vi. 122.

Goode, Samuel, to be paid for expenses, vi. 548.

Gooding, John, and another, bounty to, vi. 274.

Goodrich, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 577. Bethuel, pension to, vi. 176. Joseph, pension to, vi. 32. Silas, land warrant to be issued to,
vi. 65.

Goodrum, Thomas, pension to, vi. 92.

Goodwin, Amaziah, pension to, vi. 872.

-- , Daniel, award to be paid to, vi. 395 .

VOL. VIII.

10

Gowin, Charles, pension to, vi. 67. Grady, Henry, to be paid for corn, vi. 775.
-, Younger, increase of pension to, vi . 124. Graeff, Jacob, Estate of, to be discharged on
payment of $6847.01 , vi. 210. Graham, James, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305.
John, and another, payment to, vi. 707. Richard, and another. See Elias T. Langham, vi. 751. -, William, Heirs of, land patent to issue to, vi. 766.
C., and others, credits to be entered on judgments against, vi. 893 . Grammar School and Academy at Wilmington,
grant of compensation for injury to, vi. 8. Grampus, Schooner,
March 20, 1843, to be taken as the time of her loss, v. 665.
pensions to relatives of her officers and crew, v. 665.
accounts of purser of, v. 665. Granada, Brig Nueva, register allowed to, vi.
883 . Grand Jury,
fees of, i. 217, 492. oath of, in District of Columbia, v. 319. how selected, i . 88 ; ii. 82 ; v. 394. no person to be tried for a capital or infa-
mous crime but on presentment of, i . 21. exempts from service, ii. 62 ; v. 88, 394 in Pennsylvania, v. 436, 471 . in Vermont, ii. 167. not to be summoned for district court, ex
cept by special order of court, iv. 188

74

GENERAL INDEX .

Granger, Daniel, pension to, vi . 658. "" Erastus, Representatives of, released
from a judgment, vi. 410. Granniss, Enos, account of, to be settled, and
his representatives paid, vi. 601 . Grant, Edward, pension to, vi . 90.
" James H., payment to, vi . 784 . Lewis, name of, changed, vi. 97.
Grantland, Seaton , authorized to enter land, vi . 763.
Gratiot, Henry, payment for services of, to be made, vi. 792.
Gratz, Michael, loan certificate of, to be valued and paid, vi . 571.
Gray, Alexander M., pension to, vi. 179. Andrew, pension to, vi. 655. Isaac, pension to, vi. 153. James, pension to, vi . 892. and Taylor, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 813.
Grayson, John, land warrant granted to, vi. 532.
Great Britain,
intercourse with . See Foreign Intercourse, p. 65. with colonies of, iii . 432, 602, 681 , 740.
subjects of, allowed free ingress to United States with vessels, & c. , i . 701.
resolution as to conduct of the minister of,
at Washington, in 1810, ii. 612 . war with, declared, ii. 755.
commissioners under treaty of Ghent with, iii. 640 ; iv. 219, 269.
distribution of indemnities received from under treaties of 1826, iv. 219.
any attempt of, to take possession of disputed territory in Maine to be resisted, v. 355.
act to carry into effect treaty of August 9 , 1842, with, v. 623.
treaties with,
Treaty of November 30 , 1782, viii. 54. Article 1. The United States acknowl-
edged to be free, sovereign , and independent, viii. 55. Art. 2. Boundaries established, viii. 55 . Art. 3. Right of fishery secured, viii . 56. Art. 4. Debts to be paid, viii. 56. Art. 5. Congress to recommend to the states restitution of confiscated estates, viii. 56. Art. 6. No further confiscations or prosecutions, viii. 56. Art. 7. Hostilities to cease , and British armies to be withdrawn , viii. 57. Art. 8. Navigation of the Mississippi to be free to both nations, viii . 57. Art. 9. Conquests before the arrival of these articles in America to be restored, viii. 57.
Separate article relative to boundary, in case Great Britain shall be put in possession of West Florida, November 30 , 1782, viii. 57.
Notes of the treaties between the United States and Great Britain , viii . 54 .
Armistice, declaring a cessation ofhostilities between the United States and Great Britain, January 20, 1783, viii . 58.
Copy ofthe first and twenty-second preliminary articles between France and Great Britain, signed at Versailles, the twen-
tieth ofJanuary, 1783, viii. 60.

Great Britain, (continued.) Definitive Treaty of Peace with, September 3, 1783, viii. 80. Notes of the decisions of the courts of the
United States in cases arising under the definitive treaty of peace between the United States and Great Britain , viii. 80. Article 1. United States acknowledged to be independent, viii. 81 . Art. 2. Boundaries established, viii . 81 . Art. 3. Right of fishery secured, viii. 82. Art. 4. Debts to be paid, viii. 82. Art. 5. Congress to recommend to the states the restitution of confiscated es-
tates, viii. 82. Art. 6. No further confiscations or prose
cutions, viii. 83. Art. 7. Hostilities to cease , and British ar-
mies to be withdrawn , viii . 83.
Art. 8. Navigation of the Mississippi to be free to both nations, viii . 83.
Art. 9. Conquests before the arrival of these articles in America to be restored, viii. 83.
Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged
within six months , viii. 83.
Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Naviga tion with, November 19, 1794, viii . 116.
Additional note of the decisions of the courts ofthe United States in cases aris-
ing under the definitive treaty with Great Britain, viii. 116 . Article 1. Peace established , viii. 117. Art. 2. His majesty to withdraw troops from the United States. Privileges allowed to settlers and traders, viii. 117. Art. 3. Commercial intercourse regulated
between the two parties on the continent of America, viii. 117. Art. 4. Survey of the Mississippi to be made, viii. 118. Art. 5. Commissioners to be appointed to decide what river is the River St. Croix , intended by the treaty of peace to be the boundary ofthe United States, viii. 119. Art. 6. United States to make compensation to British creditors for losses occa-
sioned by legal impediments to the collection of debts contracted before the
peace . Commissioners to be appointed to ascertain the same. Their power and
duty. The United States to pay the sum awarded, viii . 119. Art. 7. The British government to make compensation to American citizens for illegal captures of their vessels by British subjects. Commissioners to be appointed to ascertain the same. United States
to make compensation to British subjects for captures in their jurisdiction, or by vessels armed in their ports, viii. 121. Art. 8. How expenses shall be paid and vacancy of commissioners supplied, viii. 122 .
Art . 9. Alienage not to affect certain titles to land, viii. 122.
Art. 10. Sequestration of debts restrained , viii. 122.
Art. 11. Reciprocal and perfect liberty of navigation and commerce between the respective people under the limitations and conditions specified in the following articles, viii. 122.

GENERAL INDEX .

75

Great Britain, (continued . ) Art. 12. West India trade regulated , viii. 122.
Art. 13. East India trade regulated, viii. 123 .
Art. 14. Liberty of commerce between the British European dominions and the United States established, viii. 124.
Art. 15. Regulations respecting duties on ships and merchandise, viii. 124.
Art. 16. Consuls may be appointed, viii. 125 .
Art. 17. How to proceed when vessels are captured on suspicion of having enemy's property or contraband goods, viii. 125.
Art. 18. What articles shall be deemed
contraband . Stipulations respecting provisions becoming contraband. Regulations respecting vessels attempting to enter a blockaded port, or found therein, viii. 125.
Art. 19. Privateering regulated, viii . 126. Art. 20. Pirates not to be protected, and
goods taken by them to be restored, viii. 126, 127.
Art. 21. Subjects or citizens of one party shall not accept commissions from a foreign state at war with the other, viii. 127.
Art. 22. No reprisal till demand of satisfaction and refusal, viii. 127.
Art. 23. Ships of war of each to be received in the ports of the other. American vessels, in case of stress of weather,
may enter British ports, viii. 127.
Art. 24. Foreign privateers not to arm in the ports of either nation , nor to sell
their prizes, viii . 128. Art. 25. Regulations respecting prizes and
captures, viii. 128. Art. 26. Privileges of the subjects and cit-
izens of each party residing in the dominions of the other in case of rupture, viii. 128.
Art. 27. Criminals to be delivered up to justice , viii. 129.
Art. 28. Limitation. The first ten articles of the treaty to be permanent . The twelfth article limited to twelve years. Ratification , viii. 129.
Additional article, May 4, 1796, viii. 130. Twelfth article suspended, viii . 130 . Explanatory article, viii. 130 . Explanatory article to be added to the treaty
of amity, commerce, and navigation, between the United States and Great Britain, March 15, 1798, viii. 131 . The commissioners under the fifth article
released from particularizing the latitude and longitude of the river intended by the St. Croix, viii. 131 . Convention between the United States and
Great Britain, January 8, 1802, viii. 196 . Article 1. The sixth article of the treaty
of November 19, 1791 , ante, page 116, annulled, with exceptions. United States agree to pay £600,000 sterling, in annual instalments of £200,000 each, viii . 196. Art. 2. The fourth article of the treaty of peace of 1783, relative to private debts, recognized and confirmed , viii. 197. Art. 3. Commissioners to execute the du-

Great Britain, (continued.) ties assigned to them by the 7th article ofthe treaty of 1794, viii. 197 .
Art. 4. Ratification of this convention , viii. 197.
Decision of the Commissioners under the Fourth Article of the Treaty of Ghent, November 24, 1814 , viii . 250.
Moose Island, &c., to belong to the United States, viii. 251.
Other islands belong to Great Britain, viii. 251 .
Declaration of the Commissioners under the Fourth Article of the Treaty of Ghent, November 24, 1817 , viii . 251 .
Treaty of Peace, December 24 , 1814, viii. 218.
Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace . Ter-
ritory, &c., to be restored, with exceptions. Archives and records to be restored, viii. 218.
Art. 2. Immediately on ratification , orders to be sent to armies, &c ., to cease hostilities. Limitation of time of capture in different latitudes , viii. 219.
Art. 3. Prisoners of war to be restored, viii. 219.
Art. 4. Reference of the boundary estab
lished by the treaty of 1783. Mode of the appointment of commissioners. Meeting ofthe commissioners . In cases of disagreement of commissioners , reference to a friendly power, viii. 219, 220 Art. 5. Commissioners to settle boundaries. Meeting and proceedings of commissioners. In case of difference , to be referred to a friendly power, viii. 220 , 221 . Art. 6. Doubts as to the boundary from a point in the forty-fifth degree of north latitude, to be referred to commissioners. Meeting and duties of the commissioners. In case of disagreement of the
commissioners, reference to a friendly power, viii. 221 . Art. 7. Commissioners to fix the boundary to the water communication between the Lakes Huron, and Superior, and the Lake of the Woods. In case of disa-
greement of commissioners, a reference , viii. 221 , 222. Art. 8. The board of commissioners may
appoint a secretary, and employ surveyors. Compensation of the commissioners. All grants of land prior to the
commencement of the war falling within the dominions of the other party to be valid, viii. 222.
Art. 9. United States to put an end to the war with the Indian tribes and nations after the ratification of this treaty, and to restore to such tribes and nations the
possessions they enjoyed or were entitled to in 1811 , viii. 222, 223. Art. 10. Contracting parties shall use their best endeavors to promote the entire abolition ofthe slave trade , viii. 223.
Art. 11. Treaty to be binding when ratification is exchanged , viii. 223.
A Convention to regulate Commerce between the Territories of the United States and those of His Britannic Majesty, July 3, 1815, viii. 228.

76

GENERAL INDEX.

Great Britain, (continued. ) Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce between the territories of United States and the British territories in Europe, viii. 228.
Art. 2. No higher or other duties on productions of each country than on those of other foreign countries. Equality of duties on American and British vessels.
Same duties on productions of each country. Equality of duties and bounties, &c. Drawbacks on the same . Intercourse with the British West Indies and North American continental possessions not affected by this article, viii. 228, 229. Art. 3. Vessels of United States may trade to Calcutta, &c. , direct, in articles not entirely prohibited. Citizens of United States not to pay more than is paid on vessels of the most favored nation. Articles must be conveyed direct to United States and be unladen . Vessels of United States not to carry on the coasting trade in the British East Indies. American vessels inay touch for refreshment, viii. 229 , 230. Art. 4. Consuls to reside in the dominions
of each party. How they may be punished. Particular places excepted from the residence of consuls, viii . 230. Art. 5. This convention, when ratified, to
be obligatory for four years. Exchange of ratifications in six months, viii. 230.
Declaration of His Britannic Majesty's Chargé d'Affaires on the Exchange of Ratifications of the Convention of July 3, 1815, viii. 231
All vessels except those of the East India Company excluded from approaching the Island of St. Helena, allotted for the future residence of Napoleon Bonaparte, viii. 231.
Vessels of the United States must not touch
at St. Helena, viii . 231 . Note of the cessation of this restriction on
the 30th ofJuly, 1821 , viii. 231 . Arrangement between the United States and
Great Britain relative to the Naval Force
of the United States and Great Britain on the Lakes, April 28, 1817, viii. 231 . Naval force on the Lakes, viii. 231 .
Lake Ontario, viii. 231. Upper Lakes, viii. 231. Lake Champlain, viii. 231. Other vessels to be dismantled, viii. 231 . Stipulation may cease on six months' notice, viii. 231. Naval force to be restricted so as not to in-
terfere with the proper duties of the armed vessels of the other party, viii. 231 .
Convention with Great Britain, October 20, 1818, viii . 248.
Article 1. Definition of the extent of the
common right of fishing, & c. , on the coast of the British dominions in Amer-
ica. Exception as to the Hudson Bay Company. Renunciation by the United States as to other fisheries, with exceptions, viii. 248, 249. Art. 2. Definition of the northern boundary of the United States from the Lake

Great Britain, (continued .) · of the Woods to the Stony Mountains, viii. 249.
Art. 3. Country claimed by either party westward of the Stony Mountains to be free to both parties till October 20, 1828, viii. 249.
Art. 4. Convention of London, of July 3,
1815, continued for ten years, viii. 249. Art. 5. Reference to first article of treaty
of Ghent. Claims for slaves under the
first article of treaty of Ghent. Differences growing out of the claim for slaves to be referred to some friendly sovereign or state, viii. 249, 250. Art. 6. This convention obligatory on ex-
change of ratifications, viii . 250. Decision of the Commissioners under the
Sixth Article of the Treaty of Ghent, June 18, 1822, viii. 274. Boundary of the United States to be established, viii. 274.
Description of the boundary of the United States, viii. 274, 275.
Islands, viii . 276.
Treaty with Great Britain, July 12, 1822, viii. 282.
Award of his Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, under the fifth article of the convention of October 20, 1818, viii. 282.
Plenipotentiaries of Russia, United States, and Great Britain, viii. 284.
Full powers communicated. Article 1. Agreement of the plenipoten-
tiaries. Arbitrators and commissioners
to be appointed to meet in the city of Washington. Oath or affirmation to be taken in the presence of each other. Vacancies to be filled up, viii . 284, 286 .
Art. 2. If an average value of each slave be not agreed upon as compensation, commissioners and arbitrators shall fix
an average value. In case they do not agree, the evidence, & c ., shall be submitted to the minister of the mediating
power; his decision to be final, viii, 286. Art. 3. The two commissioners to consti-
tute aboard for the examination of claims.
His Britannic Majesty to cause evidence of the number of slaves carried away to be produced, viii. 286. Art. 4. The two commissioners to examine and determine claims, viii. 286. Art. 5. If the commissioners shall not
agree in any case, they shall draw by lot the name of one of the arbitrators . Fi-
nal decision to be given, viii. 288. Art. 6. The decision of the commissioners
shall be binding. His Britannic Majesty agrees to pay the sums awarded in specie, viii. 288.
Art. 7. Payments for the commissioners and arbitrators, viii. 288.
Art. 8. Certified copies of this convention to be delivered to the minister of the mediating power, viii . 288.
Documents referred to in the treaty, viii. 290 .
Letter : Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middle-
ton, April 22, 1822, viii. 290 Award of the Emperor of Russia, April 22,
1822, viii . 292.

GENERAL INDEX .

77

Great Britain, (continued.) Letter : Count Nesselrode to Mr. Middle-
ton, April 22, 1822, viii . 294. Convention with Great Britain, August 6,
1827 , viii. 360. Article 1. Third article of convention of
20th of October, 1818, relative to the ter-

GreaAtrtBircilteai1n., (Bcoounntdianureyd .)line between the
United States and the British possessions , viii. 573. Art. 2. Description of the boundary line, viii. 573. Art. 3. Navigation of the River St. John

ritory westward of the Stony Mountains,
indefinitely extended , viii . 360 . Art. 2. Convention may be annulled on

to be free to both parties, viii. 574. Art. 4. Grants of land, &c. , within the
territory, confirmed to persons in posses-

due notice of twelve months by either
party, viii . 360. Art. 3. Certain claims not to be affected
by this treaty, viii. 360. Renewal of Commercial Convention with
Great Britain, August 6, 1827, viii. 361 . Article 1. Provisions of the convention of

sion of such grants, viii. 576. Art. 5. Distribution of " disputed territory
fund," viii. 575. Art. 6. Commissioners to be appointed to
mark the line between the St. Croix and
St. Lawrence Rivers, viii. 575. Art. 7. Certain waters free to both parties,

3d July, 1815, further continued for ten

viii. 575, 576.

years, viii. 361. Art. 2. Either party, at any time after ten
years, may abrogate this convention ,

giving twelve months ' notice , viii. 362. Convention between the United States of
America and Great Britain, September

29, 1827, viii . 362. Article 1. Reference

of

differences

as to

Art. 8. Mutual agreement for the suppression ofthe slave trade, viii. 576.
Art. 9. Parties to unite in remonstrances with other powers, within whose dominions a market is found for slaves, viii. 576 .
Art. 10. Criminals to be delivered up to either party upon requisition, viii. 576.

the boundary between American and

Art. 11. The eighth article of this treaty

British dominions to a friendly power,
viii. 363. Art. 2. Statements of the respective cases
to be drawn up, viii. 363. Art. 3. Each of the contracting parties
shall communicate to the other the evi-

to be in force for five years, and afterwards until one or the other party shall signify a wish to terminate it. Tenth
article in force until either party shall wish to terminate it, viii . 577. Art. 12. Ratifications to be exchanged with-

dence to be offered , viii. 363.

in six months, viii. 577.

Art. 4. Maps to be annexed to the state- Greaves, Jacob D. , pension to, vi. 874.

ments, viii. 364. Art. 5. Statements, &c., to be delivered
to the arbitrating power within two years,
viii. 364. Art. 6. In case the arbiter should desire

Greece, Treaty of Commerce and Navigation between the United States of America and
His Majesty the King of Greece, Decem-
ber 10-22, 1837, viii. 498.

further evidence, mode of producing it,
viii. 364. Art. 7. The decision of the arbiter shall

Article 1. Ports of either party open to the
other. Citizens of each party at liberty to reside in the territories of the other,

be final, viii . 365. Art. 8. Ratifications to be exchanged with-
in nine months , viii. 365. Convention between the United States of

viii. 498. Art. 2. Tonnage duties, &c. , to be on the
footing of national vessels, viii. 498. Art. 3. Vessels of the United States may

America and Great Britain, November
13, 1826, viii . 344. Article 1. One million two hundred and

import into Greece whatever Greek vessels may import. Reciprocal as to importation in Greek vessels, viii . 500.

four thousand nine hundred and sixty dollars to be paid by Great Britain to the United States, to carry into effect the first article of the treaty of Ghent, of December 24, 1814, viii . 344. Art. 2. Convention being fulfilled, annulled, except part of the third article,
viii. 344. Art. 3. When the sums are to be paid by

Art. 4. Vessels of the United States may export from Greece whatever Greek vessels may export. Reciprocal as to exportations in Greek vessels from the
United States, viii . 500. Art. 5. Coasting trade excepted, viii . 500.
Art. 6. Neither party to grant any preference in its purchases to importations in its own vessels, or in the vessels of other

Great Britain, viii. 344. Art. 4. The sums to be in full of all claims

nations, viii . 500. Art. 7. No other or higher duties to be im-

under the convention, viii. 345. Art. 5. Papers of the commission , viii. 345. Art. 6. Ratification of this convention , viii.
345. A Treaty to settle and define the Boundaries
between the Territories of the United States and the Possessions of Her Britan-
nic Majesty in North America ; for the final suppression of the African Slave
Trade ; and for giving up Criminals, fugitives from justice, in certain cases, August 9, 1842, viii. 572

posed than are imposed on vessels of other powers, except the reservations in
the fifth article, viii. 500. Art. 8. Prohibitions not to be imposed on
the productions of either power, viii. 502. Art. 9. All privileges of transit to become
common, viii. 502. Art. 10. Vessels of either party, entering
the ports of the other, but not wishing to unload, may depart. They must conform to custom-house regulations, viii. 502.

78

GENERAL INDEX .

Greece, (continued .)

Gressum, Richard, increase of pension to, vi

Art. 11. Vessels unloading part of their

155.

cargo may depart with the remainder Gretten, George G. , pension to , vi. 190 .

without paying duties. Duties charge- Gridley's Farm , purchase of, iv. 8.

able on vessels , where to be paid, viii. | Griffin, Cyrus, and others, accounts of, to be set-

502.

tled, vi. 297.

Art. 12. Consuls, & c . Archives of con-

" Jonathan, claim of, to be settled and

suls to be exempt from search. Consuls,

paid, vi. 155.

&c., to judge and arbitrate in certain cases, viii. 504.

Thomas, amount of a bill of exchange to be paid to, vi . 224.

Art. 13. Consuls may require the assist-

ance of local authorities for the arrest of

397.

released from a judgment, vi.

deserters. Deserters, when arrested, Griggs, Gideon , pension to, vi . 90 .

how to be disposed of. Deserters guilty

John, pension to, vi. 100.

of a crime, viii. 504.

Grimball, John, Heirs, &c., of, authorized to

Art. 14. Aid to shipwrecked vessels, & c ., viii. 506.
Art. 15. Regulations as to quarantine, viii. 506 .

locate land, vi. 797. Groce, Jared E., authorized to reenter lands,
vi. 550.
Groun, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 515.

Art. 16. Regulations as to blockade , viii .

506.

577.

-, payment of pension to, vi.

Art. 17. Duration of the treaty to be for Grover, Amasa, pension to, vi . 25.

ten years, & c. , viii . 506.

increase of pension to, vi. 115.

Art. 18. Ratifications to be exchanged within twelve months, viii . 508.

Benjamin, payment of pension to, vi. 577.

Greeley, Aaron, claim of, to be settled , vi . 107. Greely, Aaron, appropriation for, ii. 734.
" Joseph, pension to, vi. 23. Green, Andrew, pension to, vi. 139.
-, Elijah, and others, pension to be paid

Grozer, William, payment to, vi. 771. Grubb, Curtis, allowance to, for damages, vi.
716.
Grymes, William, seven years' half-pay allowed to heir of, vi. 662.

to, vi. 657.

Guadaloupe, commercial intercourse with , iv.

9 Isaac, released from a judgment , vi . 882.

269, 573.

" James, account of, to be settled, and he Guard, Daniel, pension to, vi. 67.

to be discharged from prison, vi. 268. Jonas, pension to, vi. 73.

Guedry, Daniel, land claim confirmed to repre. sentatives of, v. 493.

-, Joseph, pension to, vi. 23.

Joseph, payment for land to be refund-

I., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 193.
J., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

ed to , vi. 561 . -, Onezime, land claim confirmed to, v.
493.
Pedro, land claim confirmed to, vi.

W., and others, fishing bounty al-

526.

lowed to, vi. 659.

Guera, Antonio, land claim confirmed to, vi

9 Patrick, allowance to, vi. 789.

499.

William, pension to, vi. 73.

Guerlain, Lewis H., to be paid for damage to

Greene, Christopher, interest allowed to repre-

buildings, vi . 259.

sentatives of, i . 299.

Guest, John, claim of, to be settled and paid,

-, appropriation for, i. 339.

vi. 400.

interest allowed to, vi. 11. | Guichot, Maturin, land title confirmed, and

Major- General Nathaniel, estate of, in-

payments refunded to , vi. 309.

demnified for a bond, vi. 9, 28.

Guion, Isaac, payment to, i . 185.

demnified, i. 258, 344.

estate of, in- Gulledge, Thomas, authorized to enter land, vi. 366.

Greenhow, Robert, purchase of History of, v. Gulnare, Brig, register allowed to, vi. 831.

722, 723.

Gumbleton, Robert, pension to, vi . 417.

Greenough, Horatio, payment to, v. 378, 428, Gunboats,

690.

building of, ii . 206, 292, 330, 402, 451.

Greenup, C. C. , payment to, iv. 581.

sale of, authorized , ii. 821 ; iii . 218.

Greer, Jefferson, authorized to enter land, vi.

to be laid up, ii. 699.

752.

Gurnee, Samuel, pension to, vi. 178.

Thomas, pension to, vi. 33. Gregory, Francis H., to be paid for expenses,
vi. 393.
John M., Representatives of, half-pay

Guthrie, Abelard, land patent to issue to, vi. 886.
land entry confirmed to , vi. 921 .

allowed to, vi. 588.

James, pension to, vi. 178.

-, Luther, pension to, vi. 176.

John, pension to, vi. 33.

Gregory, Lieutenant Francis H., prize money

Peter, authorized to relinquish and en-

to, for capture of a British gunboat in the

ter land, vi. 629.

River St. Lawrence, iv. 23.

Guthry, John, final settlement certificate to be

Gresham, Elizabeth, pension to, vi. 890.

paid to , vi. 269.

" additional pension to, vi. Gutierres, Antonio,

909.

Bernard, land claim confirmed to,

Joseph, forfeiture to be paid to, vi .

, Francisco, vi. 499.

635.

Juan,

GENERAL INDEX.

79

Guy, Matthew, donation to, vi . 176. Guyant, Luke, pension to, vi . 113. Gwathmey, Humphrey B. , certificate of deben-
ture allowed to, vi. 605. Gwyn, John, Heirs of, land warrant to issue to,
vi. 397.
Gwynn, Charles, amount of a judgment repaid to, vi. 297.

Hall, Major John, to be credited with $2400, vi. 211.
John Y., pension to, vi. 364. Joseph, patent fees to be refunded to, vi. 704.
Primus, pension to, vi. 725. Samuel, letters patent to issue to, vi. 547.

-, William, allowance to, for a horse , vi . 274 .

Stephen, to be paid for advances to troops, vi. 232.

H.
Habeas Corpus,
writ of, when suable, i. 81 , 82. in case of seamen, i . 133 . in case of a person confined for acts done
under the United States laws, iv. 634. when it may be suspended , i . 15. in case of a person confined for an act done
by authority of a foreign power, v. 539. where a person is confined for an act done
or omitted under a law of congress, iv. 634.

William, pension to, vi. 309. Hallock, James C. , pension to, vi . 910. Hallowell, Edward, penalties remitted to, vi.
150, 163
Halsey, Thomas Lloyd, duties remitted to, vi. 44.
Halsted, John, grant of land to, ii . 101 ; vi. 43. Halt, Joshua, allowance to , vi. 170. Hambleton, Samuel, account of, to be settled,
and allowances to , vi. 881.
Hambly, William, grant of land to, in lieu of other, vi. 341.
Hambright, Nancy, pension to, vi. 884.

provisions respecting, in obsolete act of 1801 , ch. 4, ii. 89, 98.
Habersham, John, certain charges to be allowed to , vi. 54.
appropriation to, for naval materials, ii. 209.
-, appropriation to pay, ii. 269. Hackley, Richard S., to be paid for expenses,
vi. 251 , 481.
Haggard, Nancy, seven years' half-pay allowed to , vi. 662.
Haggerty, John, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 557.
Hagin, Charles, pension to, vi. 177. Hugner, Peter, to be paid for extraordinary ser-
vices, vi. 194 , 369. Hague, sale of United States house at, iv. 169 .
Haile, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 189. -, Robert, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 605.

Hamburg, discriminating duties on vessels of, iii. 510, and App . i. 4 ; iv. 2, 228. treaties with. See Hanseatic Republics, p. 80 .
Hamilton, Alexander, land warrant to issue to widow and heirs of, vi . 772. statue of, to be imported free of duty, iv. 175. -, Allen , land sale confirmed to, vi . 749. appropriation to pay, v . 301. Archibald W., to be paid for advances, vi. 545.
David, pension to, vi. 92. Elizabeth, Widow of Alexander, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 173.
Empson, increase of pension to, vi. 699.
George, to be discharged from prison, vi. 140.

William, pension to, vi. 113. Haines, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 83. Hainesworth, James P., Representatives of, au-
thorized to locate land, and credit allowed to , vi . 581.

John, pension to, vi. 178.
-, Joseph D., Representatives of, and others, credit allowed to, vi. 484.
" Richard J., release of land to, vi. 819.

Halcyon, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owner, officers, &c., of, vi. 606.
Hale, E., and others, moiety of a forfeiture to be refunded to, vi . 415.

Hamilton County, payment to, for loss of courthouse by fire while occupied by United States troops, iii . 306.
Hammett, Alexander, account of, to be settled

-, Joseph, pension to, vi. 24.

and paid, vi. 850.

Haley, D. W., to be paid for services and ex- Hammond, Charles D., judgment against, to be

penses, vi. 379.

opened, vi. 864.

- and Harris, allowance to, for carrying the mail, vi. 713.
John, pension to, vi. 26. Half-Pay, to widows and orphans. See Pen-
sions, p. 130.

Statts, increase of pension to, vi. 94 Hamon, William, duties to be refunded to, vi.
165.
Hampden, forfeiture of goods illegally entered at, released, vi. 169.

Haliday, Thomas, Representatives of, to be paid Hampton, Jacob, land patent to be issued to, vi.

for expenditures, vi. 635.

348.

Hall, Caleb B. , duties to be repaid to, vi . 241 . Charles B., allowance to, for an illegal
seizure, vi. 892.
Henry, duties to be refunded to, vi. 412.

John, increase of pension to, vi. 77. -, Noah and Jonathan , released as sure-
ties of J. H. Alley, vi. 268. Hamtramck, Major, to be charged with $250,
vi. 16.

Cyrenius, payment to, for vessel, iv . 626. | Hancock, Caroline D.,

David, Jr., pension to, vi. 25.

Jubal B.,

increase of pension to, vi. 77.

Mary M.,

Henry H., scrip to be issued to , vi. 669.

" William M.,

Hugh, land warrant to be issued to , vi. 65.

, Sophia, land 267.

authorized to land, vi. 856.
title confirmed

enter to, vi.

80

GENERAL INDEX .

Hand, Charles J., allowance to, for reclaiming | Hanseatic Republics, (continued . )

horses, vi. 596.

either of the contracting parties than are

Handy, Gamaliel, pension to, vi . 24. Haney, John, pension to, vi. 189.

paid by other powers, viii. 368. Art. 3. No priority or preference to be

Hanging, the punishment of death to be by, i. 119.
Hannah, Brig, duties to be refunded to owners of, vi. 601 .

given by either party, viii. 368. Art. 4. What shall be vessels of Lubeck
Bremen, or Hamburg, viii. 368. Art. 5. Vessels of the Hanseatic Republics

-, Daniel, pension to , vi. 179. Hanover,

coming to the United States, viii . 368. Art. 6. Merchants may manage their own

Treaty with the King of Hanover, May 20 , 1840, viii. 552.

affairs, submitting themselves to the laws, &c., viii. 368, 370.

Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation. Inhabitants of the respective countries to be allowed admission into the territories of the other.

Art. 7. Powerto dispose of personal goods, viii. 370.
Art. 8. Special protection to persons and property, viii. 370.

Residence to be permitted . Allowed to manage their business . Free access to
tribunals ofjustice , viii. 552. Art. 2. Duties to be the same as on na-
tional vessels. Vessels to which this
privilege extends. Same duties on im-

Art. 9. Favors granted to other nations to be common to both parties, viii. 370.
Art. 10. Convention to be in force for
twelve years, viii . 370. Art. 11. To be ratified within nine months,
viii. 372.

ports, whether in vessels of the United States or of Hanover. Same duties on

Additional Article, June 4, 1828 , viii. 386. Consuls, &c ., authorized to arrest desert-

exports, viii. 552, 554. Art. 3. Same duties on importation of cer-
tain articles, the growth of either party, & c. Exportations. All prohibitions

ers, viii. 386. Assistance to be afforded to consuls , viii
388 . If a deserter has committed any offence,

shall be general, viii. 554. Art. 4. Coasting trade excepted , viii . 554. Art. 5. No preference of importations tobe

his surrender to be delayed, viii. 388. This article to have the same force as if
forming part of the convention of 1827.

given, viii. 554. Art. 6. Consuls . Their authority and

Ratifications to be exchanged within nine months, viii . 388.

privileges. Consuls to judge and arbitrate cases. Contending parties not to be deprived of their right to resort to the tribunals of their country on their return.

for acts respecting, see Hamburg, p. 79. Lubeck, p. 106. Bremen, p . 18.
Hansbury, Edward, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Consuls may require the aid of the local Harbeson, John, pension to , vi. 111 .

authorities to arrest deserters . Desert- Harboring,

ers, how to be disposed of, viii. 556.

absconding seamen, forfeiture for, i. 133.

Art. 7. Power to dispose of personal prop-

of felons or thieves, i . 116.

erty. Personal representatives may suc-

of pirates, i. 114.

ceed to property by testament or ab in- Harbors and Ports,

testato. Possession to be had , on pay-

defence of. See Ports, p. 136.

ment of certain duties. Care of property in the absence of representatives. In

protection and improvement of. See Ports and Harbors, p. 136.

case of several claimants. In case of Hard, Benjamin F. , payment to, vi. 848 .

real estate, alien heirs to be allowed

and Longstreet, claim of, to be settled, vi

time to dispose thereof. Effects of per-

716 .

sons removing from their domicile to be | Hardesty, Richard, to be paid for work, vi .

exempt from duties, viii . 556 , 558.

622.

Art. 8. Right to wrecks abolished . As- Hardie, Allen W. , allowed to complete payment

sistance in case of shipwreck. Salvage

for land, & c., vi. 487.

payable. Duties in case of vessels unloading to repair. The cargo to be liable for storage on goods landed to repair vessels, viii. 558.
Art. 9. The treaty to continue twelve years, and for one year after notice of
either party of desire to terminate it, viii. 558 .

Hardin, Richard, increase of pension to, vi. 69. Harding, Giles, allowance to, for boats de-
tained, vi. 239. Colonel John, allowance to widow and
children of, vi. 12. " allowance to children of,
vi. 41. appropriation to pay chil

Art. 10. Ratifications to be exchanged in ten months. The signatures to the

dren of, i . 407 , 447 , 500, 543, 720 ; ii. 120, 188, 214 , 268, 320 , 388.

treaty in two languages, not to be cited as a precedent, viii. 558. Hanseatic Republics, Convention of Friendship, Commerce, and Navigation with the free Hanseatic Republics of Lubeck, Bremen, and Hamburg, December 20, 1827, viii . 366.

-, arrearages of pension of, i. 344.
-- John, allowance to, vi. 239. Seth, pay of captain allowed to, for
services, vi. 4. grant of land to, vi. 43.
" pension to, vi . 63.

Article 1. Imports, viii. 366.

Hardison, Benjamin, certificate for pay to issue

Art. 2. No higher duties to be paid by

to , vi. 4 .

GENERAL INDEX.

81

Hard Labor, punishment of, iv. 109, 118, 739. Hardridge, Joseph, land patent to issue to, vi
532.
William, land patent to issue to, vi. 531.
Harford, Peter, pension to, vi. 92. Harmony, Peter, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 367,
694 .

Harsleben, Charles, and others, letters patent allowed to, vi. 435.
Hart and Bosworth, appropriation to pay for arms, &c., vi. 814. George H., and others, credit to be en-
tered on judgments against, vi. 893 . -, John, appropriation to pay for arms, &c., vi. 814.

Harper, James A., Representatives of, allowance to, for expenses, vi. 401 .

-, Nicholas, land warrant granted to, vi. 532. Patrick, pension to, vi. 100.

-, Joseph M., indemnified against a judg- Hartfield, Asa, Representatives of, authorized to

ment, vi. 555.

surrender land patent, vi. 483, 562.

-, Lucien, value of a certificate , to be paid to, vi. 457.
Samuel H., $500 to be paid to, for services, vi. 218.
-, William, pension to, vi. 842. Harregal, Daniel, land title confirmed to, ii.
527.

Hartman, Philip, pension to, vi. 803. Harvard College, duties on books remitted to,
vi. 160.
Harvey, Joshua, exempted from imprisonment for debts of United States, vi . 50.
and Slagg, drawbacks to be paid to, vi. 939.

Harrington, James, pension to, vi. 612. Harris, Haley and, allowance to, for carrying
the mail, vi. 367. Herman, allowance to, on account of a
forfeiture, vi. 768.

Haskell, John, pension to, vi. 178. C., appropriation for payment of,
vi. 888.
William, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 616.

John, purchase of land of heirs of, au- | Haskill, Jonathan, to be allowed for money lost,

thorized, v. 329.

vi. 37.

-, Relief, arrears of pension to be paid to, Haskins, Thomas and Ralph, released from a

vi. 649.

bond, vi. 858.

Richard, and N. Farrow, claim of, to Haslet, William, claim of, to be settled and paid,

be examined and suits suspended , vi . 283.¸

vi. 183.

suit against, Haslett, William, certificate of payment to issue

to be dismissed, &c ., vi . 331.

to, vi. 584.

claims of rep- Hassenclever, Mary, and others, bond of, to be

resentatives of, to be settled, vi. 526.

cancelled, vi. 243.

9 Robert, pension to, vi. 26. 9 Thomas, pension to, vi . 68.
J., payment to, v. 157. William, pension to, vi. 417. Harrison, Mrs. Clarissa B., credits allowed to,

Hastings, William, increase of pension to, vi . 76.
 Zenas, pension to, vi. 177. Haswell, Anthony, fine to be refunded to, vi.
924 .

and time of payment fixed, vi . 458.

Hatch, Joshua, and others, bounty allowed to

-, George, and Sureties, to be exoner-

vi. 669.

ated from a debt, vi. 922.

Lewis, pension to, vi. 731.

Jonas, accounts of, to be settled , vi. | Hathaway, Benoni, pension to, vi. 68.

212.

--, Levi, pension to, vi. 364, 417.

John H., released from a judgment, vi. 510.
Joseph, Heirs of, authorized to enter land , ii . 711.
Richard, accounts of, to be settled, and interest allowed , vi. 734.
Robert H., payment of salary of, ii. 690.
Hanson, Heirs of, pay, intereat, and bounty land allowed to , vi. 437.
interest al-
lowed to, vi. 524. Samuel, allowance to, vi. 164.

Havens, Daniel, pension to, vi. 654. Sylvester, credit allowed to, vi. 482. --, payment to, vi. 531.
Hawkins, Bartlett, increase of pension to, vi. 94.
David, pension to, vi. 178. Joshua, pension to, vi. 82. Mary H., to be credited for purchase money, vi. 309.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 139. William, to be discharged from prison, vi. 88.
appropriation for, iv. 148.

Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 637.
Major Thomas, pension to, vi. 931. William H., thanks of congress and a
medal for good conduct on the Thames, iii. 476.
-, appropriation for funeral expenses, v. 451.

Hawkley, James, pension to, vi. 75. Hawley, David, increase of pension to, vi. 69.
? Nathan, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 93,
114, 180.
Nero, increase of pension to, vi. 93, 180 .
William, andothers, incorporated, vi. 381 .

resolutions of congress on the occasion of his death , v. 466. Harrison, Mrs., balance of one year's salary of her husband, to be paid to her, v. 437.
-, franking privilege to, v. 461 .

Hay, John. See Cahokia, p. 22. D., claim of United States released
to, vi. 144.
Hayner, John, allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 442 .

resolutions of congress on death Haynes, Jonathan, pension to, vi . 26.

of her husband, v . 466.

-, Joshua , pension to, vi. 23.

Harrup, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi . 76.

VOL. VIII.

11

increase of pension to, vi . 114.

32

GENERAL INDEX .

Hays, Hugh, pension to, vi . 179. John. See Cahokia, p. 22.
Hayti, commercial intercourse with, ii . 10 , 351 , 421 .
Hazard, Cord, pension to, vi. 441 . William C., authorized to relinquish

Henly, Robert, medal to, for bravery on Lake Champlain, iii. 246.
--, Arthur H., allowance to, vi. 316. Henry and Minis, accounts of, to be settled, vi .
232.
Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 123.

bounty land and receive half-pay, vi. 779. Hazeltine, William, pension to, vi. 25.
increase of pension to, vi. 115.
Hazen, Charlotte, pension to, vi. 56. --, grant of land to, ii. 712.
" General Moses, allowance to representa-

Henson, William , to be paid for services, vi . 920 . Herd, Stephen, and others, act for relief of, ex-
tended, vi. 340.
Hermange, Anthony, letters patent granted to, vi. 375.
Hernandez, Joseph M., claims of, to be examined , vi. 757.

tives of, for loss ofhalf-pay, vi. 392.

Widow J. , land claim confirmed

interest allowed to, vi.

Pedro,

to, vi. 499, 501.

466.

Herrick, Andrew, pension to , vi. 418.

Hazlet, John, allowance to children of, vi. 671 .
Hazletine, Benjamin, duties to be repaid to , vi. 305.

John, arrear of pension to be paid to, vi. 653.
Oliver, pension to, vi. 543.

Hazleton, Daniel, and another, to be paid for Herring, Asa, released from a claim of the post-

extra work, vi . 558.

office department, vi. 376.

Health Laws and Quarantine,

Herron, John, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

obsolete acts, i . 474. regulations in force, i. 619 ; iv. 577.

Hertick, Joseph, allowance to, for a boat impressed, vi. 678.

use of a United States building at Baltimore granted, v. 717.
Healy, Bethia, pension to, vi. 929. Heaps, John, allowance to widow of, vi. 245. Heard, James, pension to, vi. 190.
John, to be discharged from prison , vi. 86
Jr., moiety of a penalty to be repaid to, vi. 496.

Heth, Harvey, to be paid for corn destroyed, vi. 922.
Hewes, Thomas, allowance to, vi. 322. -, William, annuity to, vi. 648.
Hewitt, Benjamin, to be paid for a slave lost, vi. 771 .
claim of, to be examined, vi. 772.
Daniel, pension to, vi. 25.

Stephen, and others, authorized to enter

Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 82.

land, vi. 313.

Hewlit, Lemuel, pension to, vi. 176 .

act for relief of, Heyberger, Jacob. See Norristown and Valley

(1824, ch . 142, ) extended to, vi. 486.

Railroad, vi. 899.

Hearn, William, discharge of, from prison, au- Heyden, Aaron, to indemnify, vi. 175.

thorized, vi. 64.

Jacob Vander, grant of land to, vi. 43.

Heath, Nathaniel H. , claim of, to be settled and Hickey, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 68.

paid, vi. 221 .

David, pension to, vi. 26.

Heck, John, released from a judgment, vi. 333.

-, Philip, to be paid for timber, vi. 557.

Heileman, Ann S., half-pay for five years al- Hickman, Fielding, land patent to issue to, vi.

lowed to, vi. 720.

278.

Helm , Lina T., pension to, vi . 364. Helphenstein, Major Peter, Heirs of, seven years'
half-pay to, vi 720. Hemenway, Peter, pension to, vi. 24.

John P., accounts of, to be settled, vi. 848.
Reuben, land patent to issue to, vi. 278 .

increase of pension to, vi. 101.

Thomas, pension to, vi. 112.

Hemp,

Hicks, John, pension to , vi. 894.

preference to be given to American , in | Hidden, Enoch, allowance to, vi. 871 .

purchases for the navy, v. 467, 703. agencies for, to be established, v. 648.

Joseph, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi . 918.

mode of purchase, v . 617.

Higginbotham, William, pension to, vi. 417.

Hempstead, Stephen, increase of pension to , vi . 93.
Henderson, Dunbar, and others, moiety of a forfeiture to be refunded to , vi. 415. " John, to be paid for losses by Indians, vi. 849.

Higgins, Isaac, pension to, vi. 25.

increase of pension to, vi. 76.

Lucius M., and another, register of a

schooner allowed to, vi. 463.

-

Richard, allowed to prove a preemp-

tion right, vi. 853.

-, Joseph, salary allowed to, vi. 11. High Seas,

-, pension to, vi. 177. authorized to enter land, vi.

power of congress over felonies on, i. 14. crimes on. See Crimes, p. 43.

752.

Hightower, Captain R., account of, to be settled,

William, allowance to, for property

vi. 285.

destroyed, vi. 268. Hendley, Richard, payment to, vi. 770. Hendrick, George, pension to, vi. 190.
Harman, duties to be refunded to, vi . 237.
Henley, David, accounts of, to be settled , vi. 125.

to, vi. 329.

a judgment to be credited

Highways,

the following rivers declared to be common

highways,

Mississippi, ii. 642, 703, 747 ; iii. 349,

546 ; v. 743.

to be paid for muskets, vi. 240 .

Missouri, i' . 747.

GENERAL INDEX .

83

Highways, (continued. ) rivers running into the Mississippi, i. 53 ; ii. 747.
rivers running into the St. Lawrence, i. 53.
rivers running into Gulf of Mexico, ii. 642, 666 ; iii. 349.
in North- West Territory, i. 468, 491 . all south of Tennessee, ii . 235 . in Indiana Territory, ii. 279. in Orleans and Louisiana Territories,
ii. 621 , 666, 703. in Alabama, iii . 492 ; iv. 290. in Florida, iii. 756. Higley, Seth, pension to, vi. 417. Hill, Apheus, pension to, vi. 189 . Frederick, pension to, vi. 723. George, pension to, vi. 122. Isabella, John, Elizabeth, and Samuel, purchase money to be refunded to, vi. 860.
James W. and Elijah, and others, authorized to surrender land certificates, vi. 492.
Jesse, lease of, to be valued, iv. 57. " Rees, to be paid for advances , vi. 231.
William, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187 .
claim of, for pay, to be paid , vi . 333.
2 Zimri, pension to , vi. 26.
Hillary, Reynold, or Rignald, full pay for five years allowed to, vi. 490.
Hillen, Nathaniel, land claim confirmed to, vi. 526.
Hilliard, Gray, and Company, payment to, for printing Manual of Infantry Tactics, iv. 627. Thurston, pension to, vi. 25.
Hillman, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 75. Hills, H. W. and S. , and others, discharged
from a note, vi. 665. Hilton, Joseph, pension to, vi . 23. Hinds, Daniel, pension to, vi. 417. Hinkley, Jared, pension to, vi. 75.
Wiat, increase of pension to, vi. 69. Hinkson, John, pension to, vi. 190 . Hinman, Joel, pension to, vi. 81 . Hipple, Lawrence, pension to, vi. 26. Hispaniola. See Hayti, p. 82. Hitchcock, Gaius, pension to, vi . 638.
Henry, allowance to, for horses, vi . 344.
Hite, George, Representative of, authorized to locate land, vi. 269.
Hoadly, Samuel, pension to, vi . 416. Hoag, Samuel, to be paid for damage to fences,
vi. 303.
William H., allowance to, vi. 918. Hobart, Jonas, pension to, vi. 111 . Hobby, Thomas, pension to, vi . 25. Hodge, George, allowance to heirs of, for prop-
erty destroyed, vi . 545.
Hodges, Gilbert, authorized to enter land, vi. 580.
Hodgdon, Samuel, credits to be allowed on judgment against, vi. 287.
Hodgkin, John, to be paid for services, vi. 899. Hodgson, Joseph, allowance to, for property de-
stroyed, vi. 273.
Hodsdon, Ebenezer, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305 .
Isaac, judgments to be refunded to, vi. 342 . Hodson, William, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi . 866.

Hoff, Michael, duties remitted to , vi. 349. 9 Nicholas, pension to, vi. 75.
Hoffman, Martin, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187 .
" William, land warrant granted to, vi. 525.
Hogan, John B., suits against, to be suspended, vi. 282. act for the benefit of, repealed ,
and credits allowed, vi . 293. Michael, claim of, to be settled and
paid , vi. 231 . -, payment to, iv. 626.
Hogland, James, authorized to exchange land, vi. 468.
Hoit, Gates, allowance to , for services, vi. 515. Holberd, Robert, pension to, vi. 153. Holbrook and Brooks, duties to be repaid to, vi.
241 .
Holcombe, John, pension to, vi. 74. Holden, Richard, letters patent to issue to, vi.
277.
Holgate, William, pension to, vi. 416. Holkar, John, account of, to be settled , vi. 175. Holl, Captain Robert, indemnified for ship
Union destroyed, vi. 394.
Holland. See Netherlands, p. 122. -, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 610. John, allowed to enter certain land,
v. 715. H., claim of, to be paid, vi. 682.
Park, account of, to be settled , vi. 186 .
Holliday, John, allowance to, for a team captured, vi. 316.
Maria, land claim confirmed to, vi. 509.
Robert, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715. Hollinger, William , release of land to, vi. 342. Hollinsworth, Jehu, authorized to exchange land, vi. 721 . Hollister, J. W., and Company, duties to be refunded to, vi. 411 .
R. F., payment to be made to, vi . 887. Holly, Leonard, land warrant to be issued and
arrears paid to representatives of, vi. 591 . Sion, pension to, vi. 190.
Holmenhouser, Charles, and others, moiety of a forfeiture to be refunded to, vi. 415.
Holmes, Alexander, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 196 . Caleb, and others, bond of, to be cancelled, vi . 806.
Elisha, appropriation for payment of, vi. 888.
John, allowance to, for a horse killed, vi. 278.
Josiah, fishing bounty allowed to , vi. 843 .
Nathaniel, settlement of account of, vi. 43.
Holt, Charles, fine to be refunded to, vi. 931 . " Jesse, pension to, vi. 24. County, Missouri, authorized to enter lands, vi . 847. " Nathan, pension to, vi. 23. Norman, authorized to enter land, vi. 684 .
Holten, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 23. Holton, Jonathan, increase of pension to, vi.
69.
Homa, Hishe, authorized to enter land, vi . 596

84

GENERAL INDEX .

Homan, Ambrose, pension to, vi. 73. Homans, Benjamin, allowance to, for services
as clerk, vi. 443. Daniel, claim of, to be settled, vi. 627. to be paid a balance , vi. 841. , payment for extra work, vi .
941 .
Home Squadron, appropriation for, v. 438. Hone, John, and Sons, claims of, to be settled
and paid, vi. 556. Hooe, Nathaniel H., release of land to, vi. 755. Hook, Josiah, to be paid expenses of suit, vi. 302.
-, Stephen, to be paid for services, vi. 473.
, Moses, right of preemption granted to, vi. 127.
Hooker, Samuel F., to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 211. $785 to be paid to, vi. 218. " claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 281 .
Hooper, James, payment to, vi . 185. Hoover, Andrew, allowance to, for a horse lost,
vi. 659. Hope, Brig, register allowed to, vi. 458. Hopkins, Benjamin W. , allowance to children
of, for damages, vi. 404.
Captain David, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 676.
Eliza, and others, land warrant to issue to , vi. 794.
James E., and others, allowance to, vi. 565. Hopping, Thomas, Heirs of, allowance to, vi. 546.
Hornet, Sloop of War, allowance to relatives of officers, & c. , of, vi. 414.
capture of the Peacock, iii . 4, 142. capture of the Penguin , iii . 254, 341. Horseford, John, pension to, vi. 25. Horses and Cattle, importation of, regulated, i . 699. provision for indemnification for horses lost
in war, in general, i. 463. act of 1837, v. 142. amendments of act of 1837, v. 204 , 358, 511, 648. continuance of the act, v. 204 , 288, 414, 648, 673.
all former acts respecting property lost, to revive, v . 358.
act of 1837 not to extend to future wars, v. 673.
for general provisions respecting any property lost in war, see Property, p. 142.
special provisions for same, in campaign on the Wabash, ii. 705. in campaign against the Seminoles , iii. 676. on frontiers of Illinois and Michigan, iv. 613, 726. Tennessee volunteers , v . 358 . Missouri volunteers, v. 673.
Horton, Eli, patent fees to be refunded to, vi. 705 .
Hosmer, Ashbel, increase of pension to, vi. 84. Hospital Department, of the army, appropria-
tions for. See Army Appropriation Acts, p. 8. Hospitals, Marine, deduction from seamen's wages for estab-
lishment and support of, i . 605, 729.

Hospitals, Marine, (continued.) directors of, i. 606 ; ii. 193. buildings for, i . 606. application of the money, i. 606, 729 ; ii. 192 .
deduction from pay of boatmen on the Mississippi, ii. 192.
admission of foreign seamen into, ii. 193. commission of collectors on money for, ii.
193.
deduction from wages suspended in 1837 for one year, v. 189.
appropriation in lieu thereof, v. 189. provisions of act of 1798, ch. 77, (i. 605,)
extended to seamen of registered vessels
in coasting trade, v. 602. at New Orleans, ii . 192 ; v. 189. in Massachusetts, ii. 192. in North Carolina, v. 545, 602.
at Key West, v. 670. on western rivers, v . 189, 546, 795. Hospitals, Naval, deduction from seamen's wages for, i.
729.
commissioners of, ii. 650. office abolished and duties transferred
to secretary of the navy, iv. 572. sites for, to be purchased , ii. 650. secretary of navy to make rules for, ii.
650. to be allowed one ration for each person re-
ceiving benefit of, ii. 650.
appropriation for fund of, iv. 304, 360. investment offund, iv. 572. state of fund for, to be reported annually,
iv. 573.
in Florida, iv. 570, 751 ; v. 157, 234, 364, 400, 420 , 501 , 616, 792.
in Massachusetts, iv. 570, 751 ; v. 28, 157, 234, 420, 501 , 616, 792.
in New York, iv. 570, 751 ; v. 28, 157, 234, 363, 400, 420 , 501 , 616, 792.
in Virginia, iv. 570, 751 ; v. 157, 234, 364, 400, 420, 501 , 616, 792.
for general appropriations for hospitals for navy, see Navy Appropriation Acts, p. 121 .
Hostilities, piratical, i. 113, 114 ; iii. 510, 600, 721 ; iv. 116.
Hotchkiss, Russell, and others, duties to be refunded to, vi . 533.
Hough, Benjamin, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 196.
House of Representatives, election of members of, i. 11 . to be by districts, v. 491 . bills to raise revenue must originate in, i. 12 . apportionment of members. See Apportionment, p. 5. annual statement of expenditures from contingent fund required, iii. 789. franking privilege of officers and members. See Franking Privilege, p. 69. pay of members and officers. See Congress, p . 39.
for other provisions respecting. See Congress, p . 39.
Household Furniture, tax on, iii. 186, 264. Houser, Henry, pension to, vi . 417. Houssaye, Louis de la, land title confirmed to
representatives of, vi . 360.
Houston, James, pension to, ri. 74.

GENERAL INDEX.

85

Hover, Joseph, land patent to issue to, vi. 886. How, William, grant of land to, vi. 43. Howard, George W., increase of pension to, vi.
441 .
9 allowance to, vi. 505.
Institution, of Washington, incorporated, vi. 685.
James, pension to, vi. 91 . Thomas P., land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65. Howd, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 25.
Howe, Asahel, to be paid for advances to troops, vi. 232.
David, duties to be repaid to, vi . 305. Howell, Jacob, land claim confirmed to heirs of,
ii. 800.
John, land claim confirmed to, vi. 662. Howland, John H., drawback allowed to, vi.
317.
Howze, William, to be paid for services, vi . 468. Hoyt, Asa, pension to, vi. 515.
-, Elijah, pension to, vi. 25. Jonathan, pension to, vi . 418.
Hubbard, David, pension to, vi. 179. -, Eber, to be paid for a boat captured,
vi. 478.
E. K. , H. G., and G. S. , release of land to, vi. 818.
John, pension to, vi. 67. Hubbel, Ezekiel, appropriation for the benefit of,
vi. 104.
David, pension to, vi. 25 . Hubbell, William , allowance to, vi. 107. Hubble, Nathaniel, pension to, vi . 26.
Daniel, and others, purchase money to be refunded to, vi. 765. Hudson, Chamberlain , pension to, vi. 417.
-, Eleazar, increase of pension to, vi. 101 . -, John, pension to, vi. 417. -, Jonathan, payment on a bond to be refunded to, vi. 322. Huffman, Benjamin , allowance to, vi . 314 .
-, payment to , iv. 37.
Huger, Benjamin, claim for seven years' halfpay to be adjusted, vi. 6.
Hughes, Andrew S., appropriation to pay, v. 161 .
" David M., to be paid for losses by Indians, vi. 849.
-, George A. , passage of, to be paid for, vi . 288 .
-, James, certificate to be issued to, vi. 237.
-, John, duties to be refunded to, vi. 491 .
Hugo, Samuel B., pension to, vi. 841. Huie, John, pension to, vi. 176. Hulbell, David, increase of pension to, vi. 77. Hulks, sunk to protect ports, (obsolete,) iii. 18. Hull, Isaac, prize money and medal given to, for
victories in the Constitution, ii. 818, 830. claim of, to be paid, vi . 887.
-, payment to, vi. 873. Samuel, pension to, vi. 33. General William, compensation allowed to persons employed by, vi. 125.
claims of, to be paid to his representatives, vi. 372.
--, payment to, iv. 147. Humiliation and Prayer, day of, ii. 786 ; iii .
248 .
Humphrey, Charles, payment to, vi . 301. Humphreys, David, and others, account of, to
be settled, vi. 297.

Hunt, Abijah, land claim confirmed to heirs of, vi. 248 .
Caleb, pension to, vi. 23. increase of pension to, vi. 77.
Davis, pension to, vi. 649. " Humphrey, pension to, vi. 23. " John E., payment to, vi . 887.
John S. T., and Wilson P., to receive the benefit of any balance in favor of A Kingsley, vi. 397. " Jonathan, land patent to issue to, vi . 822.
Roswell, pension to, vi. 544. Russell, David, and Amos, to be paid for anchors, vi. 554. Samuel, pension to, vi. 643. " Thomas, pay of an adjutant allowed to, vi. 401 .
William, pension to, vi. 26, 578.
Hunkpapa, Indians, treaty of July 16, 1825, with, vii. 257.
Hunter, Ann, pension to, vi . 927. Archibald R. S., to be paid for forage,
vi. 757. -, George, accounts of, to be settled, vi .
78.
Hiram A., to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 677.
-, Captain James, sword to be presented to, iv. 792.
-, Thomas, account of, to be settled, vi. 253.
released from a judgment, vi. 926 .
Huntington, Asher, pension to, vi. 544. , G. W., discharged from a note, vi.
665 .
Hunton, Charles, increase of pension to, vi 154.
Huntoon, Charles, Jr., pension to, vi. 23.
-, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 115 .
Hurd, David, pension to, vi. 90. increase of pension to, vi. 114.
Zadock, pension to, vi. 23. Hurlbert, Weight, pension to, vi. 774. Hurlburt, Collins, Children of, pension to, vi.
418 .
John C., to be discharged from prison, vi. 145 .
Hurlbut, George, commutation of half- pay to representatives of, vi. 589.
claim of, to be settled, vi. 674. Hurtel, John, authorized to enter land, vi. 554. Huson, Cornelius, pension to, vi . 417.
- allowance to, for horses im. pressed, vi. 265. Hussey, Tristram, duties to be refunded to, vi. 88.
Huston, Robert, to be paid for provisions , vi. 391 . Hutchins, Alpheus, pension to, vi. 659.
Levi, pension to, vi. 417.
Thomas, surveys of, to be completed, i. 187.
Hutchinson, J. P. , appropriation for, v . 763. Robert and Thomas, drawbacks
allowed to, vi . 812. Hyde, Charles, settlement of account of, vi. 49.
Jedediah, pension to, vi. 74. Hydrometer, new, for liquors, authorized , iv. 79. Hynum, James, Heirs of, entitled to a donation
of land, vi . 151. -, Margaret, payments on land to be refunded to, vi. 151.

86

GENERAL INDEX.

Impeachment,

I.

power of, i. 11, 17.

expenses of certain impeachments paid, is

Icard, Joseph, Administrator of, payment to be

273, 389, 456, 468.

made to, vi. 939.

Impeding,

Ice, vessels prevented by, from coming into

custom-house officers, i. 678 ; and see i.

port, provided for, i. 188, 694.

316.

Illinois, City,laying out of, confirmed, and conveyance oflots authorized, vi. 242.
--, Lake County, authorized to enter land, vi. 832.
School Section, sale of, confirmed, vi. 847.
St. Clair County, lands to be reserved

mail. See Post- Office, p. 137.
Implements of Trade and Occupation, exempt from duty, v. 560.
Importing False Coin, ii. 405. Imports,
annual statistical accounts of, directed, iii. 541.

for schools in, vi. 810. Illinois, Territory of,

duties on. See Duties, p. 55. Imprisonment,

lands granted to settlers in, i. 221.

for crime, iv. 118, 739, 777 ; and see Gaol,

establishment and government of, ii. 514.

p. 71.

boundary of, ii. 514; iii. 218.

for debt, in District of Columbia, ii. 194,

Kaskaskia to be seat of government, ii. 516.

237 ; v. 629.

delegate to congress from, ii. 742. right of suffrage in, ii. 741. execution on suits commenced before es-

process for, to change with that of the respective states, v. 321 , 410.
relief of persons imprisoned. See Poor

tablishment of, ii. 748.

Debtors, p. 135.

courts in, regulated, iii. 237, 327.

Inability, ofjudges, i. 278 ; ii. 534 ; iii. 643.

surveyors of public lands in, appointed, iii. Independence,

375.

declaration of, i . 1.

Shawneetown in, laid out, ii. 591.

distribution ofcopies of, iv. 78.

road in, from Shawneetown, authorized, iii. | Indiana, Territory of,

318.

establishment of, ii. 58.

payment of general staff of governor of, for 1812, iii. 399.

general acts for the government of, ii. 58, 525, 554, 660.

Mlinois, State of,

division of, into two territories, ii. 309, 514.

establishment of, iii. 428. laws of United States extended to, iii. 502.

special provisions respecting, provision for suits pending before es-

district court, &c., in, iii . 503.

tablishment of, ii. 108.

seat of government of, land for, iii. 525, 618.
admission into the Union, iii. 536

power of judges of, in district of Louisiana, ii. 287. compensation therefor, ii. 444.

sale and payment of three per cent. of lands, &c., iii. 610 ; iv. 431 .

additional compensation to secretaries of, ii. 450.

canals in, iii. 659 ; iv. 234, 662 ; v. 542. may sell certain lands granted for salt

right of suffrage in, extended, ii. 469, 525, 659.

works, iv. 305, 496.

delegate to congress from, ii. 525, 659.

town laid off at Galena, on Bean River, iv. 334 ; v. 79.

boundary of, next to Ohio, to be ascertained and marked, ii. 741 .

northern boundary to be marked, iv. 479. survey of the boundary of Illinois and

how divided into election districts, iii. 103.

Indiana, iv. 663.

inhabitants of, authorized to form a consti-

circuit courts in . 29 .
district courts in. 50.

See Circuit Courts, p. See District Courts, p.

tution and state government, iii. 289. conditions of acceptance as a state, iii . 290 . all of North-West Territory except Ohio to
be included in, ii. 174.

seat of justice in Gallatin county, iv. 184. Indiana, State of,

authorized to sell certain lands, iv. 451 ,

establishment of, iii. 289.

496.

laws extended to, iii. 390.

land for a seminary of learning, iii. 430 ; iv. 475.
payment ofmilitia claim of, iv. 532. governor of, authorized to obtain certain

admitted into the Union, iii . 399. northern boundary of, fixed, iv. 236.
payment ofthree per centum of lands to, iii. 424

abstracts of papers, iii. 602. authorized to sell lands reserved for

seat of government of, grant of lands for, ii. 649 ; iii. 290, 516.

schools, v. 600.

school lands in, located, iii. 686.

for provisions as to lands in. See Lands,

canal in, grant for, iv. 236 ; v. 414, 542.

Public, p. 94.
Imlay, Richard, mail chests of, to be tested, iii. 719.

canal authorized through public lands in , iv. 47.
road in, provided for, iv. 234 , 702, 718.

--, William, settlement of claim of, for clerk hire, vi. 34.

permission given to sell school lands, iv. 298, 558.

Impairing Coin, i . 250 ; ii . 405 ; iv . 122.

lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94.

Imparlance, to be granted where judgment constitutes a lien and the defendant is en-

demarcation of boundary between Indiana and Illinois, iv. 663.

titled to it by the state laws, iv , 281.

payment of militia, vi . 789.

GENERAL INDEX .

87

Indian Affairs, department of, organized, iv. 735. appropriations, general, i . 328, 460, 564, 618, 720, 742 ; ii . 67, 109, 183, 227, 315, 338, 407, 443, 467, 548, 607, 660 ; iii. 326, 393, 516 , 517, 608, 634, 688, 690, 749.
vol. iv. in 1824, 37 ; in 1825, 92 ; in 1826, 150, 181 , 191 , 194 ; in 1827, 216, 217, 232 ; in 1828 , 267 , 300 ; in 1829, 349, 352, 361 ; in 1830 , 373, 390, 398, 403 ; in 1831 , 432, 433, 442, 463, 464, 470, 491 ; in 1832, 505, 519, 526, 528, 532, 576, 578, 582 ; in 1833, 616, 628, 631, 636 ; in 1834, 677, 682, 705 ; in 1835, 746, 780.
vol. v. in 1836, 10, 36, 73 ; in 1837, 158 ; in 1838, 209, 242, 298 ; in 1839, 323 ; in 1840, 402, 412 ; in 1841 , 414, 417, 435 ; in 1842, 473 , 493, 532, 576 ; in 1843, 612, 645 ; in 1844, 704 ; in 1845, 766, 777 .
transfer of appropriations in, authorized, v. 613.
appropriations to defray expenses of treating with, i. 54, 136, 333, 460, 530, 618 ; ii. 82, 85, 183 , 228, 291 , 548 ; iii. 478, 561 , 658, 749 ; iv. 35, 45, 185, 188, 302, 315, 361 , 394, 581 , 632, 791 ; v. 414.
appropriation for extinguishing the land title of, to land granted to the " United Brethren," iii. 749 .
to Quaupau lands in Arkansas, iv. 41 . in Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan, iv.
564.
in Missouri and Illinois, iv . 594. president authorized to exchange lands
with Indians, ii. 289 ; iv . 411. provisions respecting trade and intercourse
with Indians,
general acts, (obsolete ,) i . 137, 329, 469, 743 ; ii. 39 ; (in force ,) act of 1802, ch. 13, ii. 139 ; iii . 332 ; act of 1834, ch. 161, iv. 729.
boundary of Indian lands, i . 469, 474, 743, 749 ; ii. 139, 140 , 145, 289 ; iv. 729.
offences in Indian territory, how and where punished, ii . 141 , 144 ; iii . 333 ; iv. 733 , 734.
employment of military force to enforce laws, ii. 142 ; iii . 333 ; iv. 730 .
licenses to trade , ii . 142 ; iii. 332 ; iv. 729.
attempts to be made to civilize the Indians, ii. 143 ; iii. 516.
notes of acts and decisions respecting, ii. 140, 141 , 146, 147.
passports to enter Indian lands, ii. 141 ; iii. 333 ; iv. 730.
settlements, & c. , in Indian lands, ii. 141 ; iv. 730.
agents to designate places of trade , iv. 35.
introduction of ardent spirits forbidden , iv. 564, 732.
crimes, acts extended to Indian territory, iv. 734.
jurisdiction of Arkansas courts, v. 630 . acts to establish trading houses with, i. 452 ;
ii. 173 , 207 , 338, 402, 544, 652 ; iii. 239 , 363, 423, 514 , 544, 641 ; abolished , iii . 679.
persons to be appointed as agents to receive

Indian Affairs, (continued . ) money and articles due to Indians by treaty, iii. 679.
privileges of trade by treaty , secured to, i. 701 .
no purchases of land from, valid, unless sanctioned by a treaty, i. 138, 330, 472, 746 ; ii. 143 ; iv. 730.
acts to preserve peace with, ii. 6, 39, 139, 289.
rations to Indians visiting military posts, ii. 85 ; iv. 738.
expenses of Indians visiting seat of gov ernment, ii. 85.
trading houses with Indians, i. 452 ; ii. 173.
grant of land to Alabama and Wyandott Indians, ii. 527.
location of lands under treaty with the Creeks of 1814, iii. 380 ; v. 256.
-removal of Indians, ii. 289 ; iv . 58, 187, 411, 595 ; v. 435.
persons employed, commissioner, iv. 564. interpreter, iv. 737. blacksmiths, &c., iv. 737.
superintendents, i . 68, 123 ; ii. 402 652; iii. 428, 683 ; iv. 35, 735.
agents and sub agents, i . 452 ; ii. 403, 652; iii. 519 ; iv. 35, 445, 564 , 665, 735, 736 ; v. 47, 163.
of trading houses abolished, iii . 679.
compensation, iii . 461 ; iv. 736. not to trade, i . 452 ; ii. 403, 652 ; iv.
738 .
mode of appointment, iii. 428 ; iv. 735, 736.
clerks, ii. 403, 544, 654 ; iv. 564 ; v. 27, 524.
care of, vested in war department, i . 50. fines imposed on selling spirits to natives
of the north-west coast, iv. 276. treaty with Creeks carried into effect so
far as respects claims of citizens of Georgia , iv . 721 . reversionary interest of United States in certain lands relinquished, iv. 740. mistakes in the treaty with the Pottawatamies to be corrected, iv . 669. remedies for small-pox among Indians, iv 514. Seneca fund, how invested , iv. 442 ; v. 47 Indian funds generally, investment of, v 135 .
Creek reserves , v. 186, 256. Choctaw reserves, v. 180, 211 , 513, 777. location and support of Seminoles removed
from Florida, v. 316. Brothertown Indians , v. 349. survey of northern line of the Sacs and
Fox reserve, v. 622, 666. construction of treaty of 1838 with Chippe-
was, v. 680. relief of claimants under Cherokee treaty
of 1836, v. 719. sale of buildings erected for the use of
agents, teachers, & c., v. 611. department of Indian affairs, iv. 735. payment of annuities, iv . 737.
merchandise, how to be purchased , iv. 737 officers in, nc to trade, iv. 734, 738.
animals and implements for Indians, iv. 733.

88

GENERAL INDEX .

Indian Affairs, (continued .)
president may prescribe rules and regula. tions, iv. 738 .
Indian Depredations, claims on account of, to be settled, vi. 581. in Arkansas, claims for, to be paid, vi . 408. Reservations in Alabama, to be relinquished, vi. 441 .
Indictments, for treason, i. 118. for perjury, i. 116. arraignment and pleading to, i. 118 ; iv. 118, 777.
for penalties or forfeiture, limitation of, i. 119 ; v. 322. See Limitation, p. 105.
persons accused of capital crimes, & c. , not
to be held to answer, except on indictment, i. 21 .
Infantry Tactics, edition of, to be printed and published, iv . 357, 627.
Infants, sale of real estate of, in District of Columbia, v. 621.
Informer, liability for costs, i . 626. when allowed costs, i. 626. share of penalty , i. 697. fines and forfeitures, i. 697. in what cases may be a witness , i . 299, 317, 697.
Ingalls, Israel, pension to, vi . 632. Ingle, John P., and another, to be paid for rent,
vi. 784.
Inglis, Captain John, appropriation for, i. 395. Ingraham, Amos, pension to, vi. 417.
Nathaniel G., to be discharged from prison, vi. 119. Injunction, writ of, when grantable, by judge of su
preme court, i. 334 ; iii. 595. by district judge, ii. 418 ; iii. 595. to treasury warrant of distress against pub.
lic debtors, iii. 595. to prevent the issuing, &c. , of bills of ex-
pired corporations, v . 297. obsolete provision for, ii. 94.
Inman, Henry, appropriation to pay for painting, v. 173.
Innes, George, to be paid for services, vi. 786.
Insolvency, priority of United States in cases of, i. 42, 263, 515, 676.
priority in like cases to sureties , i. 676. acts for the relief of insolvent debtors .
See Poor Debtors, p. 135.
Inspection, laws of the states confirmed, and to be observed, i. 106, 699.
Inspectors of Customs, appointment and duties, i . 642, 654, 658, 659, 667, 668, 678 ; and see Customs, Officers ofthe, p. 44. right of, to board vessels, i . 195, 668 ; iii . 231 , 232, 668.
right of, to search carriages, &c . , iii . 195, 231 , 232.
for provisions respecting all officers of the customs, see Customs, Officers of, p. 44.
Inspector- General, and Inspectors in the Army, appointment and number of, i . 120 , 483 , 559, 604, 753 ; ii . 133, 671 , 735, 819 ; iii. 297, 615 ; v. 513. reduction of, v . 513.

Inspector- Generals, &c . , (continued .) pay of, i . 120 , 484, 559, 604, 755 ; ii 133, 207, 671 , 735, 784 ; iii. 426, 615. duties of, i. 120.
rules and regulations for, to be prepared , ii. 819.
See Staff, p. 161 . Inspector of Fortifications, appointment of, i.
753.
Insurance Companies, remedies of, in District of Columbia, ii. 227.
Insurgent, Ship, provision for relatives of those lost in, ii. 170.
Insurgents in Pennsylvania, relief to persons who suffered from , i. 423.
Insurrections,
employment of militia to suppress, i. 14, 243, 424.
of army and navy, ii. 443. Insurrection in Pennsylvania, grant to officers
and citizens, for losses by, vi. 20. Intercourse. See Foreign Intercourse, p. 65. Interest, on bonds and judgments, i. 677 ; v. 518 Interfering land claims, iii. 526 ; iv . 31 . Internal Duties. See Duties and Excises, inter
nal, p . 56.
Internal Improvements. See Ports and Har bors, p. 135. Ronds, p. 148. Canals, p. 23 Navigation, p. 120.
International Law, jurisdiction of United States courts in cases of persons committed for acts done by order of foreign powers, v. 539. See Contraband, p. 40. Privateers, p. 141 .
Intrepid, Ketch, resolutions respecting good con. duct of officers and crew of, ii. 346.
Intrusion, into public lands, prohibitions of, ii. 445 ; iii. 260, 393, 450.
Invalid Pensions. See Pensions, p. 130.
Inventions, Patents for. See Patents, p. 128. Invoices,
in what currency to be made out, i. 41 ; ii. 121 .
fraudulent, i. 42, 169, 677 ; iii . 436, 734 ; v. 565.
must be produced, iii. 434 , 729. exception, iii. 434, 730.
must be sworn to, iii. 434 , 435, 730. provision for non-resident owners, iii 435, 733.
collector's certificate thereon, iii. 437. when conclusive evidence of value , iii
437.
Iowa, Johnson County, grant of right of pre. emption to, vi. 846. Linn County, authorized to enter land, vi. 844 .
school lands reserved in , vi. 925.
University, grant of land for, vi . 810 .
Iowa, Territory of, territory of Wisconsin divided, and that of lowa established, v. 235.
general act for the government of, v. 235. laws of United States extended to , v. 239.
delegate from, to congress, v. 240 . provision for suits already pending, v. 240 . restrictions on power of legislature, v. 237. all laws to be submitted to congress, v.
237 .
statutes, how passed, v. 356. assignment of judicial districts, v . 505. extra session of legislature in June, 1844,
authorized, v . 657.

GENERAL INDEX .

89

lowa, Territory of, (continued.) improvement of Dubuque harbor, v. 670.

Jackson, Jacob, pension to, vi. 867. James, pension to, vi. 180.

appropriation for the " Agency Road," v.

Jarvis, released from claims of post.

670. appropriation for the " Military Road," v.

office department, vi . 348 . --, John, credits to be entered to account

670. boundary of, v. 235 .
southern, v. 248, 677.

against, vi . 881 . -, Joseph, to be paid for a horse lost, vi .
787. William, bounty land warrant to issue

eastern, v. 357.

donation of lands to, for public buildings,

to, vi. 452. Jacob, John J., commutation of half-pay to be

v. 330. compensation ofjudges, v . 331 . school lands in, v. 522, 666.

paid to, vi. 516. Jacobs, Benjamin, loan certificates to be settled

penitentiary in, v. 537. admission of, into the Union , v. 742.

and paid, vi. 574. Enoch, pension to, vi. 25.

Francis, pension to, vi. 578.

Iowa, State of, admitted into the Union, v. 742.
assent of people required , v. 743.

" John, pension to, vi. 112. J., benefit of Stat. 1828, c . 53, ex

boundary of, v. 742.

tended to, vi. 446.

jurisdiction of, over the Mississippi, v. 743. Jacoby, Leonard, and others, bond of, to be can-

to have one representative to congress, v.

celled, vi. 243. Jacocks, John H. , to be paid for services, vi. 796.

743.

-, William, bounty land warrant to be

conditions of admission, v. 743, 790.

issued and arrears paid to, vi. 405.

laws of United States extended to, v. 789. Jahucke, Trapmaun, and Company, allowance

district court established, v. 789.

marshal, clerk, and attorney, v. 789.

to, for excess of duty, vi. 276.

propositions to be submitted to legislature Jails. See Gaols, p. 71 .

James Monroe, Schooner, bounty allowed to

of, v. 789. grant of land to, for schools, & c. , v. 789,
790.

owners, &c ., of, vi. 867. --, Johnson, pension of, to be paid to Mary,

widow of, vi. 386.

Iowa Indians, treaty with, of September 16, 1815, vii. 136.

Thomas, and another, authorized to enter

treaty with, of August 4, 1824, vii. 231 . treaty with, of August 19, 1825, vii. 272. treaty with, of July 15 , 1830, vii . 328.

land, vi. 776. Jamison, Margaret, pension to, vi . 826.
and Williamson, accounts of, to be set

treaty with, of September 17, 1836, vii.

tled, vi. 792 .

511 .

Janis, Jean Baptiste, Senior, pension to, vi.

treaty with, of November 23, 1837, vii . 547.

681.

treaty with, of October 19, 1838, vii. 568. Janvier, Isaac, pension to, vi . 612.

Iron Steamboat Company, duties remitted to, vi. Jaquays, Nathan, pension to, vi . 24.

739.

Jardella, Francis, payment to, vi. 621.

Jarrot, Nicholas. See Cahokia, vi. 242.

Irvine, Alexander, pension to, vi . 33.

Jarrott, Nicholas, authorized to locate land, vi.

Irving, Washington, appropriation for, iv. 626.

258.

Irwin, Lieutenant- Colonel Henry, Heirs of, al- Jarvis, Francis, Heirs of, land scrip to issue to,

lowance to, vi. 729.

Isett, Thomas M., authorized to enter land, vi.

vi. 773.

James J., allowed to enter certain lands,

854.

Ish, Christian, certificate to be paid to repre-

v. 715. bravery of, resolution respect-

sentative of, vi. 570.
Israel, John, pension to, vi . 417. - , Joseph, tribute to memory of, ii. 347. Issues, how to be tried, i. 21 , 77, 80 ; v. 213.

ing, ii. 87. John H., duties to be repaid to, vi. 241.
Jason, Brig, duties remitted to owners of, vi. 15.

loes, Elisha, allowance to, for a boat captured, Java, Frigate, to be rebuilt, iv. 570, 752.

vi. 442.

Javins, John, pension to, vi. 897.

Jay, John, payment for marble bust of, iv.

J.

474.

Jeans, Joseph, allowance to, for horses im.

acaway, Samuel, pension to, vi. 177. accard, Peter Samuel, authorized to exchange
land, vi. 767. Jackson, Amasa, penalty for importing slaves
remitted to, vi. 87. Andrew,
thanks of congress to, iii. 249. fine of, to be refunded, v. 651.
--, Archibald, pension restored to, vi. 417. Daniel, and another, register of a
schooner allowed to, vi . 463. Francis J., (the British minister,) dis-
approval of his conduct, ii. 612. George K., authorized to relinquish
land, and purchase money to be repaid to, vi. 563.

pressed, vi . 368, 445. Jeansonne, Baptiste, and another, payments to
be refunded to, vi. 570. Jeffers, John, authorized to exchange land, vi.
690. Jefferson College, Mississippi,
authorized to relinquish , locate, and enter
lands, vi. 484. reservation of lands for, ii. 234, 305 , 679. Jefferson, John R., and others, claims of, to be examined, vi. 932.
Thomas, franking privilege of, ii. 526, 552.
-, purchase of library of, iii.
195 , 225, 246. -, purchase of bust of, iv. 513

VOL. VIII. 12

90

GENERAL INDEX.

Jeffersonville, entries for land in, to be with- | Johnson, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 93.

drawn, vi. 200. Jellison, Zachariah, duties to be refunded to,
vi. 851.
Jenkins, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi. 140.
Hannah, pension to, vi. 900.

--, Mary, pension to, vi 860. Richard M., allowance to , vi. 212. sword to be presented to,
for victory on the Thames, iii. 476. Dr. Robert, claim of, to be settled, vi.
392.

Thomas, and Company, to remit duties to, vi. 2.

vi. 13.

and Sons, duties remitted to,

Weston, and Crew, proceeds of sale of the Retaliation allowed to, vi. 147.

Jenks, David, grant of land to, vi. 43.

and George, and another, to be paid for muskets, vi . 331 .
Stephen, Arnold, David, and Betsey, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 389. Jennings, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 23.

-, George H., to be paid for services, vi. 553.

" Robert C., claim of, to be settled, vi. 522.

further time allowed to settle claims of, vi . 531.

discharged from a bond, vi. 883 .

Samuel K., patent right to be renewed to , vi. 899.

Jennison, Joseph B. , pension to, vi . 417. Samuel, donation to, vi. 176. See S. Tennison, p. 168.
Jenny, Stephen, released as surety of J. B. Fanning, vi. 837.

Jeroin, Robert, pension allowed to, vi. 25. Jerome, John Baptiste, allowance to, for prop-

Sterling, payment to be made to, vi. 253. Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 77. -, William, pension to, vi. 73, 83.
allowance to, vi. 598. Johnston, Ann W., to be paid for a horse killed,
vi. 712.
Benjamin, sword to be presented to, iv. 792.
David, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Elijah, pension to, vi. 417. , George, released from a judgment, vi. 459, 523.
and others, allowance to, for expenses of suit, vi. 373.
C., payment to, vi . 901 . John, payment to, vi. 856. Stephen, Children of, land certificate to issue to, vi. 812.
Samuel, increase of pension to, vi. 94 .
Johonnot, Dr. William, Representatives of, allowance to, vi. 730.
Jones, Alexander, pension to, vi. 74. Arthur, authorized to exchange land, vi.
344.
Benjamin, pension to, vi. 417. Charles S., and R. Buckner, release to, vi. 247.

erty destroyed, vi. 448. Jervey, Thomas Hall, payment to be made to,
vi. 224.
Jewell, John M. , pension to , vi . 737. Jewelry, tax on, iii. 186, 217, 230, 254, 264.

De Garmo, payment to, vi . 489. 1 Dennis, pension to, vi. 417. -, Epaphras, duties remitted to, vi. 19.
Ezekiel, allowance to, for services, vi 787.

Jinkins, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 74. Jipson, Bradley T., pension to, vi . 724.
-, pension certificate to issue to, vi. 745. John Adams, Frigate, building and repairing of, ii. 514, 699, 776. Smith T., and another, claim of, to be settled , vi. 397. Johns, Elias, to be paid for a mare lost, vi. 715. Johnson, Abraham, pension to, vi. 179.
-, Adam, grant of land to, vi. 43. "" Andrew, pension to, vi. 111 . -, Benjamin, claim of, to be settled, vi . 211.
County, Iowa, grant of land to, vi . 846.
-, Crawford, land warrant to issue to, vi. 731 .
Daniel, duties to be refunded to, vi. 305.

Fielding, to be paid for a horse, vi. 242 Frances, pension to, vi. 774. George M., to be paid for work, vi. 916 , Gory, allowed to withdraw a land entry vi. 200.
Captain Jacob, reward to , ii. 818. medal for, ii. 830.
James, letters patent to issue to, vi. 616
Josiah, pension to, vi. 67. increase of pension to, vi. 124.
John, and another, to be paid for ex penses, vi. 791.
Rice, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 229.
-, Leroy, pension to, vi. 189. Levin, penalty for importing slaves, re-
mitted to, vi. 87. Michael, $1500 allowed to, for extra ser-
vices, vi. 208. land claims presented by, con-

531 .

-, payment to be made to, vi.

Henry, pension to, vi. 418. allowed to enter certain land,
v. 715.
-, James, claim of, to be allowed, vi . 295.

-, pension to, vi. 417 . John, pension to, vi . 113.
T., pay of captain allowed to, vi. 303.

" Peter, pension to, vi. 23.

firmed, iii. 126. Nathaniel, to be paid for a boat, vi. 299. Nelce, pension to, vi. 33. Robert, authorized to surrender land cer-
tificate, vi. 479. -, Seaborn, and another, judgment against, to be opened, vi. 672.
Thomas, pension to, vi. 364. Ap Catesby, account of, to be
settled, vi . 165.
 arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 560.

GENERAL INDEX.

91

ones, Thomas K., drawback allowed to , vi. 46. | Judges of Supreme Court,

Walter, proceedings against, to be sus-

pay of, i. 72 ; iii . 484.

pended , vi. 764.

not to act as counsel, & c. , ii. 788.

William, release of claim to administrators of, vi . 247.

See Supreme Court, p . 164. use of library of congress granted to , ii. 786.

- certificate for purchase money Judges of Territories,

allowed to, vi . 821 .

to reside in the territories for which they

D., appropriation for payment to , vi. 814.

are appointed, ii. 788. not to act as counsel, &c. , ii. 788.

Jorda, Pierre, land claim confirmed to , vi . 500. Jordan, Jacob C. , land patent to issue to , vi . 509.
" John, pension to, vi. 113. Timothy, pension to, vi. 608.
Jorden, John, pension to , vi. 861.

compensation of those in Mississippi , In diana, Michigan, and Louisiana, ii . 431.
in North-Western Territory, i . 63. compensation in other territories . See the
titles of those territories.

Joseph and Mary, Schooner, forfeiture to be re- | Judgments,

funded to owners of, vi. 603.

in suits for United States at the first term

Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to

when, i. 514, 677 ; iv. 113.

owners, &c. , of, vi. 669.

lien of, v . 338, 393.

Jouet, Robert, five years' full pay allowed to representatives of, vi. 633.

interest to be allowed on, where the state law allows it, v. 518.

-, Representatives of, payment to be Judicial Circuits,

made to, vi . 662.

division of United States into,

Jouett, Matthew H., account of, to be settled , vi . 230.

first circuit, i . 74, 128, 197 ; ii. 157 ; iii. 554.

William R., appropriation for expenses

second circuit, i . 74 ; ii. 157 ; v. 176.

of, iv. 791.

third circuit, i . 74, 126 ; ii . 157 ; v. 176

Jourdan, B. and P., account of, to be settled

fourth circuit, ii . 157 ; v. 176, 507

and paid, vi. 230.

fifth circuit, ii . 157 ; v. 176, 507.

John, pension to, vi. 123. Journals of Congress,

sixth circuit, ii . 157 ; v. 176, 507. seventh circuit, ii. 420 ; v . 176.

each house to keep and publish a journal, i. 12.

eighth circuit, v. 176. ninth circuit, v. 176.

subscription to Folwell's edition of, i. 755.

assignment of, i . 253, 333 ; ii . 158, 244,

publication of, i. 12 ; iii . 140 ; v. 717, 718. distribution of, i. 12 ; iii . 140, 341 ; iv . 321,
407, 607.

420, 471 ; v. 178, 507.
obsolete judiciary act of 1801 respecting, ii. 90.

Journals of the Convention, publication of, iii. 475. distribution of, iii . 475, 609 ; iv. 607.

Judicial Districts, general provisions establishing, i. 73. special provisions establishing, in the fol-

Joyce, John, appropriation to pay, v. 479. Judge Advocate,
appointment of, i . 507, 508 ; ii. 136, 674.

lowing states, Alabama, iii. 564. two districts, iv. 9, 501 .

pay of, i. 507, 508 ; ii . 136, 674.

three districts, v. 315.

duties of, ii. 367, 370.

Arkansas, v. 51 .

oath of, i. 714 ; ii . 50 , 52, 368.

Florida, v. 788.

Judges, District, appointment of, in general, i . 73.

Illinois, iii. 502. Indiana, iii. 391.

for authority to appoint in particular dis-

Iowa, v. 789.

tricts, see Judicial Districts, p. 91 .

Kentucky, ii. 420 .

not to act as counsel or practise law, ii. 788.

Louisiana, ii. 703.

to reside in their districts, ii . 788.

two districts, iii. 774, 775.

pay of,

Michigan, v. 62.

general provision , i. 72. in Alabama, iii. 564.

Mississippi, iii. 413. two districts, v. 247.

in Arkansas, v. 51 .

Missouri, iii. 653.

in Delaware, i. 72, 423.

New York, i. 72.

in Florida, v. 788.

two districts, iii. 120.

in Illinois, iii. 503 ; v. 788.

North Carolina, i. 126.

in Indiana, iii. 391 ; v . 788.

three districts, i. 396 ; ii. 162.

in Iowa, v. 789.

Ohio, ii. 420.

in Kentucky, i. 72 ; ii . 164 .

Pennsylvania, i. 72.

in Louisiana, ii. 703.

two districts, iii . 462 ; iv. 50 .

in Michigan, v. 62.

Rhode Island, i. 128.

in Mississippi, iii. 413 . in Missouri, iii . 653 ; iv. 56 ; v . 788 .

South Carolina, i. 72. two districts, iii. 726.

in New York, i . 72 ; ii . 719 ; iii. 318. in North Carolina, i. 126.

Tennessee, i. 496. two districts, ii. 165, 421 , 477 ; 

in Ohio, ii. 202 ; v . 788 .

249, 313.

in Pennsylvania, i. 72 ; iii . 462. in Rhode Island , i . 128, 423. in Tennessee, i . 496 ; ii . 164.

Vermont, i. 197. Virginia, i . 72.
two districts, iii. 478 ; iv. 48.

in Vermont, i. 197. in Virginia, i . 72; iii . 479 ; iv. 180.

obsolete judiciary act of 1801 , ii. 89. for provisions respecting the circuit, dis

92

GENERAL INDEX.

Judiciary,

Kaskaskia Indians, (continued. )

trict, and supreine courts, see those

treaty with, August 7 , 1803 , vii. 77

titles.

August 13, 1803, vii. 78.

for provisions respecting process, see Pro-

September 25, 1818, vii. 181 .

cess, p. 141.

October 27, 1832, vii. 403.

provision for relief of poor debtors. See

land appropriated for use of, i. 222.

Poor Debtors, p. 135.

Kaskaskias, claims to lands in, ii. 447, 607,

appropriations for the support of the, i. 226,

677 ; iii. 125, 219, 307.

284, 326, 342, 405, 445, 492, 498, 609, Kast, Frederick, exempted from imprisonment

717 ; ii. 62, 118, 184, 187, 213, 267, 320,

for debt of United States, vi. 50 .

387, 435, 464, 468, 523, 560, 646, 690, Ka-ta-ka Indians, treaty with, of May 26, 1837,

827 ; iii. 110 , 209, 282, 356, 422, 500, 560 ,

vii. 533.

631 , 672, 761 ; iv. 15 , 89 , 146, 213, 252, | Kay, James, pension to, vi . 341.

328, 342, 457, 511 , 609, 624, 695, 767 ; Kearney, Stephen W. , and another, judgment

v. 168, 221 , 345, 377 , 426, 481, 533, 592,

against, to be discharged, vi . 515.

639, 689, 760. Jurisdiction,

iv. 707.

fees paid by, to be repaid,

over sites for lighthouses, cession of. See Keary, William V., land title confirmed to rep-

Lighthouse, p. 102.

resentatives of, vi. 352.

of congress over District of Columbia, i. 14. Keefer, Henry, pension to, vi. 648.

over territories, i . 19 ; over other subjects. See Congress, p. 33.
ofcourts over crimes in ports, & c ., i. 113 ; iv. 115. on high seas, i . 113 ; iv. 115.

Keeler, Ebenezer, to be discharged from prison, vi. 170.
Keene, Benjamin, payment to, vi . 185. William B., and another, authorized to
purchase school land , vi . 529.

over suits for penalties, v. 322.

Keep, Samuel, accounts of, to be settled and

of state courts. See State Courts, p . 161.

paid, vi. 480.

Pennsylvania requested to cede jurisdic- Keep- Tryst Furnace, to be conveyed to J.

tion over navy-yard, iv. 245.

Peacher, iii. 521.

no expenditures on sites until cession ofju- Keith, Sarah B., and others, land warrant to

risdiction, v. 468.

issue to, vi. 794.

application to be made to states for, iv. Keller, Charles M. , and another, allowance to,

264 ; v. 468.

for property destroyed, vi. 821.

over foreign vessels in our ports, ii . 339, 484 . Jury,
issues offact to be tried by, i . 77, 80. constitutional provision respecting, i. 21. exemption from serving on, ii. 62 ; v. 88 ,
394.
qualification and choice of, i . 88 ; ii . 82 ; v. 394.

Kellock, Findley, pension to, vi . 690. Kellogg, Stephen, pension to, vi . 33.
William, duties to be refunded to, vi. 355 .
Kelly, Hanson, to be paid for rations, vi. 298. --, James, appropriation for, v. 645. allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

supreme court may make rules for impanneling, v. 394.
special jury, ii . 167 . in criminal cases , i. 88, 119.

Robert A., payment to be made for services of, vi. 903.
Irad and Datus, to be paid for stone, vi. 784.

how summoned, i. 88 ; ii. 167. talesmen, i. 88.

Kelsey, Aaron, pension to, vi. 25. Kemble, Peter, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

fees of, i. 217, 277, 492, 626. in Pennsylvania, v. 436, 471. in District of Columbia, iii. 746. in Louisiana, iv. 64. Justices. See Judges, p. 91. Justices ofthe Peace, in District of Columbia. See that title.
K.

Kemf, Jacob, authorized to withdraw an entry, vi. 494.
Kenan, Augustus H., judgment against, to be opened, vi. 864.
Kendall and Butterfield, claims of, to be settled, vi. 365.
William, authorized to enter vacant land without payment, vi. 292. Kendoll, Samuel Key, increase of pension to, vi. 233.

Kaine, Robert, claim of, to be settled, vi. 493. Kaler, George, and others, forfeiture to be re-
funded to, vi. 603.
Kamber, Joseph, authorized to relinquish land, and scrip to issue to , vi. 507.
Kane, Robert, pension to, vi. 416. pension restored to, vi. 516 .
?" allowance to, for equipments captured, vi. 544. Kanzas Indians, treaty with, of October 28, 1815 , vii. 137.
June 3, 1825, vii. 244. August 16, 1825, vii. 270.
Kaskaskia Indians, treaty with, of August 3, 1795, vii. 49. June 7, 1803, vii. 74.

Kendelsperyer, Jacob, pension to, vi. 177. Kendrick, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 75. Kennard, Edward, moiety of penalty to be paid
to, vi. 913.
Kennedy, Anthony, surplus money to be paid to, vi. 277.
Edmund P., account of, to be settled, vi. 231 .
Joshua, land claim confirmed to, vi. 485.
Robert J., authorized to enter land, vi. 879.
Dr. Samuel, Heirs of, allowed half-pay of surgeon, vi. 490 .
William E., land claim confirmed to, vi. 800.

GENERAL INDEX.

93

Kennedy, William M., authorized to enter land, | Kilbourn, David, allowance to, for services, vi.

vi. 879.

513.

Kenner, James L., to be paid for a horse, vi. 712.

 allowance to, for loss of property , vi. 690.

Kenney, Moses, authorized to change a location , vi. 340.

Henry, judgment against, to be discharged, vi. 473.

Kennon, Robert L., overpayment to be refunded to, vi. 396.
Kent, Abner, increase of pension to, vi . 94. Emanuel, Jr., pension to, vi. 154.
Kenton, General Simon, pension allowed to, vi. 434.

Kilgore, Charles, pension to, vi. 92. Kimball, Abraham, pension to, vi . 23.
Jeremiah, pension restored to, vi. 905 -, Thomas, pension to, vi. 23. Kimberlin, John, allowance to, for provision, &c., vi. 556.

Kentucky Asylum for Deaf and Dumb, grant of Kimberly, Ephraim, authorized to locate a land

land to, iv. 201 ; vi. 339.

warrant, vi. 14.

further Kincaid, David, land title confirmed to, vi. 618.

time allowed to, for sale of land granted to ,

" John, pension to, vi. 566.

vi. 416, 629, 716, 810, 828.

Samuel, pension to, vi. 644.

lands granted to, transferred to Centre College ,
vi. 896 .
Kentucky, State of, establishment and admission into the

Kindall, Peter, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 193.
King, A. P., appropriations to pay for teams of, vi. 813. -, Benjamin , interest remitted to, vi. 309.

Union, i. 189. consent of congress to compact with Ten-
nessee respecting boundary, iii. 609. until second census, to be allowed two
representatives to congress, i. 191 . Kenzie and Forsyth, to be paid for mules, vi.
225.
Keough, William, pension to, vi. 82. Kerkendall, Robert, allowance to, for property
lost, vi. 408 . Kerlin, John, claim of, to be settled , vi . 358. Kern, Nicholas, sureties of, released, vi . 662 . Kerr, F. A., to be paid for services, vi. 929.
-, Henry, pension to, vi . 33. John, to be discharged from prison, vi . 89. Joseph, pension to, vi. 178.
Kersenar, John, pension to, vi . 140 . Ketcham, Singleton, pension to, vi. 656.
Solomon, pension restored to, and arrears to be paid, vi. 723.

Heirs of, land warrant to issue to, vi. 749.
Francis, payment to be made to, vi. 357. Gideon, Representatives of, and others, allowance to, vi . 406.
Henry, claim of, to be paid, vi . 333. John, pension to, vi . 67.
to be paid for a house burnt, vi. 865.
Joseph, pension to, vi . 139. Lemuel, increase of pension to, vi. 76. Robert, to adjust the account of, and pay, vi. 7.
bounty arrearages, & c . , of, to be paid, vi. 357.
Sampson S., account of, to be settled, vi. 217.
Thomas, pension to, vi. 885. 9 act for relief of, explained, (Stat.
1843, c . 41 ,) vi. 907.

Ketchum, Isaac S. , to be paid for expenses, vi. 919 .
" to be paid for provisions, vi. 920. Keyes, Jeremiah, pension to , vi. 566.
Perley, and another, released from a bond, vi. 255. Keys, Malcolm , pension to, vi. 112. Keytes, James, land patent to issue to , vi. 694. Keyworth, Robert, claim of, to be paid, vi . 718.

William, balance due, to be paid, vi . 357 . D., to be paid for services, vi. 473. M., land released to, vi. 519.
Young, annuity granted to, vi. 167. Kingsbury, John, duplicate military land war-
rant to issue to representative of, vi. 374. -, Margaret, authorized to enter land,
vi. 782.
Kingsland, Daniel, bounty arrearages, &c ., of, to be paid, vi. 357.

Kibbey, Thomas, payment to be made to widow Kingsley, Alpha , accounts of, to be settled, vi.

of, vi. 764.

397.

Kickapoo Indians, treaty with, of August 3, 1795, vii. 49. June 7, 1803, vii. 74. August 7, 1803, vii. 77. December 9, 1809 , vii. 117. September 2, 1815, vii. 130 . June 4 , 1816, vii. 145. July 30, 1819, vii. 200. August 30, 1819, vii. 202. July 19, 1820, vii. 208. September 5, 1820, vii. 210. October 24, 1832, vii. 391 . supplementary article, November 26, 1832, vii. 393.

Kingston, Stephen, drawback allowed to, vi. 583 .
Kinsley, Adam, allowance to, vi . 223. Kinzie, Robert A., release of land to, vi. 818. Kiowa Indians, treaty with, of May 26, 1837,
vii. 533 .
Kirk, John, pension to, vi. 112. Kirkpatrick, John, scrip to issue to, vi. 597. Kisby, Richard, pension to, vi. 74. Kiser, James, and another, authorized to enter
land, vi. 829. Kitchel, Asa, final certificate of, to be received,
and patent to issue to, vi. 169. Kleiss, Daniel, payment for services , vi. 860 .

appropriation for temporary support of, v. Kline, Lieutenant John L., to be paid for ex

435 .

penses, vi. 835.

Kid, Robert, duties to be refunded to, vi. 234. Knapp, Abiel, increase of pension to , vi. 92.

Kiff, Daniel, and others, fishing bounty to, vi.

Jared, increase of pension to , vi . 101 .

579.

Knight, Benjamin , pension to, vi. 23.

94

GENERAL INDEX .

Knight, Elijah, pension to, vi . 26. increase of pension to, vi . 115.
George J. , allowance to, for property impressed, vi. 489.
John, pension to, vi. 23. five years' full pay allowed to, vi.
495.
Joseph, payment to widow of, vi. 536. Knowles, Ezekiel, pension to , vi. 417.
Henry, Senior, to be paid for a horse impressed, vi. 626 .
John, pension to, vi. 23, 26. 1 Seth, debentures allowed to, vi. 391.
Thomas, letters patent to issue to, vi. 502 .
Knox, Andrew, authorized to purchase land , vi. 685.
-, Thomas, pension to, vi . 418. Knoxville, Tennessee, sale of land in, author-
ized, vi. 161 .
Koch, Severinus, pension to, vi . 3. Konkopot, Jacob, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 244. Kosciusko, General, interest on a certificate al-
lowed to, vi . 32.
Kramar, Balthazar, pension of, to be paid to his representative, vi. 362.
Krebs, Hugo, land claim confirmed to heirs of, vi. 872.
Krchl, Nicholas, surety of, released, vi . 333. Krepps, John, credit to be allowed to, vi. 707. Krugh, Philip, pension to, vi. 111.
increase of pension to, vi. 233. Kuhn, Christian, pension to, vi. 3. Kurtz, Andrew, patent allowed to , vi . 160. Kyan, John Howard, patent right granted to,
vi. 717.

L.

Laban, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners and crew of, vi. 715.

Labuiche, Francis, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.

Lacey, Obed P., authorized to relinquish land and receive a patent, vi. 834.

Lackin, William , increase of pension to, vi. 233.

Lacoste, Augustine, land claim confirmed to, vi. 807.

Lacroix, Bernard, land claim confirmed to, v. 493 .

--, Hubert, allowance to, for a house destroyed, vi. 412.

Lacy, John, account of, to be settled , vi . 501. Ladd, Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 90.
Lafayette Academy, grant of land to the use of, vi. 385.

Lafayette, City of, made a port of delivery , v. 662, 730.

Lafayette, General, location of lands for, ii. 236,

305, 329, 394, 664 ; v. 729.

i. 351 .

to be allowed his pay, & c .,

iv. 78.

visit of, to the United States,

iv. 745.

resolutions on decease of,

vi. 320.

" land and money granted to,

Lafontaine, Francis, and Son , land claim confirmed to, vi. 601 .

Laird, Captain Robert, pension of, to be paid, vi. 7.24.

Lake Champlain, resolution on victory of, iii. 245 ; iv. 195. purchase of vessels taken at, iii . 224, 229 .
distribution of purchase money, iii . 229. regulations respecting steamboats on, iii.
396 .
Lake County, Illinois, commissioners of, authorized to enter land , vi . 832.
Lake Erie, resolutions on victory of, iii . 141. purchase of vessels captured on, iii. 130.
Lake, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 23. Winnico and St. Joseph's Canal and Railroad Company, authorized to build a railroad in Florida, v. 146.
La Lande, Etienne, (Stephen,) land title confirmed to , vi. 790.
Lamar, Gassaway B., exempted from duties, vi. 739 .
, Gazaway B., authorized to import an iron steamboat free of duty , vi. 555.
Marcellina, Widow Casanova, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.
Lamb, John, pension to, vi. 180. Joshua, grant of land to, vi . 43.
-, Richard, increase of pension to, vi. 93.
Lambert, Edward, payment for land to be refunded to , vi. 568 . A., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 940. William, appropriation for, iii . 673.
Lamontt, Cyrus, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Lampade, Joseph, allowed to enter certain land, vi. 715.
Lampkin, Mary, Widow of John, his pension to be paid to, vi. 657.
Lanaux, Arnaud, land claim confirmed to, vi. 488.
Landais, Peter, claim of, for prize money to be paid, vi. 61 .
Landerneau, John Pierre, land patent to issue to, vi. 408.
Landier, Antoine, land claim confirmed to , vi. 501 .
Landon, Charles, payment to be made to representatives of, vi . 848.
Lands, Public. (1.) Title of United States to. (2.) Surveys of. (3.) Provisions respecting the Sale of. (4.) Donations, Grants, and Reservations of.
(5.) Confirmation and Adjustment of Claims and Titles.
(6.) Preemption. (7.) Proceeds of Sales of. (8.) Virginia Military Bounty Lands. (9.) Other Military Bounty Lands. (10.) Land Offices and Districts. (11.) Officers employed (12.) Miscellaneous Provisions.
(1.) Title ofthe United States to. cession of, from North Carolina, i . 106.
Connecticut, ii. 56. title in Georgia, i . 444, 549 ; ii. 70, 233
iii. 118, 193 ; iv. 36. in Indiana, iv. 564 . in Tennessee, ii. 381 . in Arkansas , iv. 41.

GENERAL INDEX.

95

Lands, Public, (continued.) to islands at confluence of St. Peter's
and Mississippi Rivers, v. 365. to Pea Patch Island, v. 366 . to Rush Island, v. 584. attorney-general to examine title to sites, v. 468.
See the acts admitting states into the Union. purchase from the Creeks, iii. 484 ; iv. 36. sale from Indians, except to United States,
prohibited, i. 138 ; iv. 730. president authorized to exchange lands
with Indians, ii. 289 ; iv. 411 , 594 . (2.) Surveys of.
general acts prescribing mode of, i. 465, 466 ; ii. 313.
subdivision into half and quarter sections, ii. 73, 282, 313 ; iv. 503. half-quarter sections, iii. 346, 566.
not less than $ 150,000 to be appropriated to surveys annually, v. 454.
in Alabaina, iii . 466 ; iv. 6. in Arkansas, iv. 418. in Florida, iii. 755 ; iv. 31 . in Indiana, ii . 180, 277, 343 ; iv. 264. in Louisiana, ii. 352, 441 , 620, 665 ; ii .
122, 139, 140 ; iv. 708 ; v. 540. in Michigan, iii. 577, 675 ; iv. 261 . in Mississippi, ii . 233, 305 ; iii. 375 ; v.
740.
in Missouri, ii. 751 , 814 ; iii. 122, 325. in North-West Territory, i. 464, 490, 728 ;
ii. 14, 73, 277, 313 ; iii. 201. in Ohio, iv. 56 ; v. 624. in Orleans Territory, ii. 618, 620, 662 ; iii.
139, 140.
of land adjoining Indiana and Illinois, iv. 663.
of northern boundary of " Sacs and Fox " reservation, v. 622, 666.
of Shawneetown, ii. 591 ; iii. 113. of the tract of the " Ohio Associates," iii.
409. of lands around Vincennes, ii . 180 ; iii.
409. of land from Nova Scotia refugees, ii. 100. of the J. C. Symmes tract, ii. 114. of lands of United Brethren, i. 490 ; ii . 14 ;
iv. 56.
of Galena, iv. 334 ; v. 25. on rivers, bayous, &c. , ii . 618, 662 ; iv. 34. of military bounty lands, i. 318 ; ii. 236,
378, 723, 764 ; iii. 287 , 332 ; iv. 335. on Sandusky River, iii. 308. of lands acquired by treaty with Creeks
of August, 1814 , iii. 228 , 229.
of tract twelve miles square, at the " British Fort of the Miami," iii . 319.
of lands north of Illinois, east of the Mississippi, and west of Lake Michigan, iv. 494.
act to protect officers engaged in surveying, iv. 417.
of lands to complete contracts made with the Confederation, i. 187.
of certain town sites, Peoria, iii. 786, 787. St. Marks, iv. 664. on Bean River, iv. 334 ; v. 79. Fort Madison, v. 70, 178. Burlington, v. 70, 178. Belleview, v. 70, 178. Dubuque, v. 70, 178.

Lands, Public, (continued .) Peru, v. 70, 178. Mineral Point, v. 70, 178. Lower rapids of Sandusky River, iii. 308.
Upper Sandusky, v. 624. Shawneetown, ii. 591. See that title,
p. 156. appropriations for, (3.) Provisions respecting the Sale of. price of land, ii . 74, 234 ; iii. 566 ; and see, below, the acts authorizing sales in different states.
fees to be paid by purchaser, ii. 74, 234. mode of payment,
credit allowed, i. 467 ; ii . 74, 234. extension of time to soldiers in the
campaign on the Wabash, ii. 705. evidences of public debt, to be re-
ceived in payment, i. 507, 729 ; ii. 74, 767.
not to be received , ii . 234, 405. to whom payment is to be made, ii.
75 ; iii. 566. certificates of claimants to Mississippi
lands, iii. 118. no credit allowed, iii. 566. to treasurer in advance, v. 391 , 718. mode of offering for sale, i. 467 ; ii. 74, 234, 650 ; iii. 567 ; iv. 503 ; and see, below, the acts authorizing sales in the different states and territories.
president may offer a part only for sale at one time, ii. 479.
sale of half-quarter sections, iii. 346, 566.
sale of quarter-quarter sections, iv. 503.
regulation of private sales after May 1, 1833, iv. 503.
mode of advertising, iv. 702. confirmation of erroneous sales, v. 73. mode of making entries, ii. 76, 556. certificates of payments,
where credit is allowed, i. 467 ; ii. 74, 234.
where payment is made in advance to treasurer, v. 366, 718.
provisions respecting patents, form of, ii. 717 ; v. 416. to be issued when full payment is made, i. 468 ; ii. 76 . to be countersigned , i . 468 ; ii. 76, 717 ; v. 417.
to be recorded, i . 468 ; ii. 76, 717. fees for, abolished , ii. 282. secretary to sign, iv. 663 ; v. 111. issued in names of deceased persons,
made valid, v. 31. confirming of, though erroneous as to
form, v. 416, 417. for bounty lands, may issue to heirs,
without specifying them, v. 650. how registers may purchase, ii. 77. officers in land office forbidden to buy, ii. 717 ; v. 112. sale of forfeited and surrendered lands , ii.
75, 114, 378, 592, 650 ; iii. 317, 433, 509, 566, 612, 614, 665, 674 ; iv. 91 , 158, 390, 391, 445, 446, 567. erroneous entries to be corrected, iii 526 ; iv. 31 , 301 , 398, 702 ; v. 73 , 472, 673. relief of purchasers, ii . 378, 533, 591 705,

96

GENERAL INDEX.

Lands, Public, (continued .)

Lands, Public, (continued .)

712, 782, 811 ; iii . 97, 130, 201 , 300, 308,

of lands set apart for cultivation oftropical

433, 509, 555, 612, 665, 751 , 781 ; iv. 24,

plants, iii. 374.

60, 80, 91 , 158, 259, note , 286, 390 , 398 , 445, 567.

of sites no longer wanted, iv. 264 . of Keep Tryst Furnace, iii. 521.

penalty for attempting to prevent bids at public sale, iv. 392.

of sites for schools, &c. , among Indians, v. 611.

penalty for agreeing to pay a premium on

note of acts respecting, i. 464.

the bid of another, iv. 392.

(4.) Donations, Grants, and Reservations of.

registers and receivers may administer oaths to purchasers, v. 384.

for school lands in the following states and territories,

special acts authorizing sales in the follow-

Alabama, iii . 467, 491 ; iv. 237 ; v.

ing states and territories,

116, 490, 727.

in Alabama, iii. 467, 681 ; iv. 572, 603.

Arkansas, iv. 329, 418, 661 , 685 ; v.

in Arkansas, iv. 400, 506, 661 , 685, 688.

58, 600 ; vi. 819. Florida, iv. 357, 551 , 601 ; v. 666, 788.

in Florida, iii. 756 ; iv. 475, 550 , 601 , 664, 727.

Illinois, ii. 448, 729 ; iii. 307 , 319 ; v. 600.

in Illinois, ii. 448, 684 ; iii. 113, 317,

Indiana, state and territory, ii . 279,

319, 326, 778 ; iv. 334, 443, 451 , 686 ; v. 49, 473.

448, 590 ; iii. 290, 686, 702 ; iv. 298, 558.

in Indiana, ii . 277, 343, 378, 447, 448,

Iowa, v. 522, 666, 789.

590, 649; iii. 409, 522, 701 , 783 ; iv. 413.

Louisiana, state and territory, ii. 234, 394, 618, 621 , 665, 729 ; v. 600.

in Louisiana, ii. 619, 620, 663, 665, 774 ; iv. 167, 398, 534, 562 ; v. 611 .

Michigan, ii. 729 ; iv. 314 ; v. 59, 624. Mississippi, ii . 234 , 401 , 480, 548 ; iii.

in Michigan, ii . 503 ; iii. 577, 778 ; iv. 443, 551 ; v. 49, 624.

163, 375, 467, 681 ; v. 116, 490, 727. Missouri, ii. 750 ; iii. 330 , 517, 547,

in Mississippi, ii. 229, 234, 440, 480,

787; iv. 435.

526, 548, 650 ; iii. 229, 375, 485,

Ohio, ii. 175, 225, 425, 448 ; iv. 57, 79,

680 ; iv. 189.

138, 179, 679 ; v. 624.

in Missouri, iii. 407 ; iv. 51 , 364, 567.

Tennessee, ii . 234 , 383 ; v. 600.

in North-West Territory, i . 464, 728 ;

Wisconsin, v. 244 , 666.

ii. 73, 237, 277 ; iii . 308 ; iv. 686. in Ohio, ii. 112, 275, 281 , 345, 352,
378, 470 ; iii . 201 , 308 , 319, 326,

J. C. Symmes's patent, ii. 114. in purchase from Creeks of August 9,
1814, iii. 229.

409, 469, 522, 575, 728 ; iv. 56, 123, 185, 237, 441 , 560 , 601 ; v. 261 , 624 . in Orleans Territory, ii. 394, 619.

general provision for cases where special reservation was not made, iv. 179.

in Tennessee, ii . 649 ; iii . 729 ; v. 412.

for seminaries of learning in the following

in Virginia, iii. 521 , 641.

states and territories,

in Wisconsin, v. 70, 244. in South Carolina, iv. 364.

Alabama, state and territory, iii. 467, 491 .

in Iowa, v. 70. at Shawneetown. See that title, p. 156.

Arkansas, iv. 235, 661 ; v. 59 ; vi . 360, 819.

sale of part of lands acquired by treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek suspended, v. 131.

Florida, iii. 756 ; iv. 201 ; v. 63, 788. Illinois, iii. 307, 430 ; iv. 475.

authority given to states to sell, to Alabama, iv. 237.

Indiana, state and territory, ii. 279 ; iii. 290.

to Arkansas, iv. 661 , 667 ; v. 600.

Iowa, v. 789.

to Florida, v. 63.

Louisiana, state and territory, ii. 394,

to Illinois, iv. 305, 496 ; v. 600.

618, 620, 664 ; iv. 244.

to Indiana, iv. 298, 558.

Michigan, iv. 180, 370 ; v. 59.

to Missouri, iv. 494.

Mississippi, ii . 234, 679 ; iii. 485.

to Louisiana, v. 600. to Ohio, iv. 79, 138, 618. to Tennessee, ii . 382 ; iii . 416 , 729 ; v.

Missouri, state and territory, iii. 407, 547 ; iv. 200, 494.
Ohio, ii. 226.

412, 600. of the Creek lands , iii. 229, 484 ; v.
186.
of estates of insolvent debtors assigned

Tennessee, ii. 382. Wisconsin, v. 244. Deafand Dumb Asylum of Kentucky,
iv. 202.

to United States, iv. 51 . of certain sites,

Columbian College , District of Columbia, iv. 603.

Fort Washington , ii . 352. Fort Fayette, (Pittsburg,) iii. 75. in New York city, iii. 116. arsenal, hospital , and barrack at New
Orleans, iii. 465.

Jefferson College, ii. 234, 305, 679. in purchase from Creeks of August 9,
1814, iii. 229.
for internal improvements, v. 455, 471 ; and see Proceeds of Sales, post, p . 98.

Fort Charlotte, ( Mobile , ) iii . 465. Fort St. Charles, iii . 661 .

Alabama, iv. 290, 397, 441 , 604 ; v . 57.

public grounds in St. Augustine and Pensacola, iv. 550.

Arkansas, iv. 371 , 619, 707 ; v. 58. 471 .

military reservations at Detroit, iv. 551.

Florida, iv. 474, 778 , v. 144 , 145, 253

GENERAL INDEX .

97

Lands, Public, (continued.) Illinois, iv. 234, 662 ; v. 471 , 542.

Indiana, iii . 290 ; iv. 234, 236, 416,

473, 702, 717, 778 ; v. 414, 542, 731 .

Iowa, v. 789.

Louisiana, v. 65, 196, 197.

Ohio, ii. 175, 226 ; iii . 727 ; iv. 242,

263, 305, 371 , 393, 662.

Wisconsin, v. 245, 663.

or mines, and hot and salt springs, i. 466. Alabama, iii. 491.

Arkansas, iv . 505 ; v. 58.

Illinois, ii. 235, 684, 729 ; iii. 296, 318, 330, 430 ; iv. 305, 451, 496.

Indiana, ii. 235, 279, 449 ; iii . 290, 296.

Iowa, v. 790.

Louisiana, state and territory, ii. 328, 394, 618, 665, 729.

Michigan, ii. 729 ; v. 60.

Mississippi, ii. 548. Missouri, iii. 547, 787 ; iv. 364.

near Wabash River, ii . 235 ; iii. 296.

Ohio, ii. 175 ; iv. 79.

in general, ii. 235, 446.

for public buildings, Alabama, iii. 408, 492, 773 ; v. 254.

Arkansas, iv. 473, 531 , 563, 667, 685 ;

v. 58, 208. Florida, iv. 30, 204 , 358. Illinois, iii. 525, 618 ; iv. 184. Indiana, ii. 649 ; iii. 290, 516. Iowa, v. 330.

Michigan, ii. 399 ; v. 59.

Mississippi, iii . 485. Missouri, iii. 547,

Ohio, iii. 607, 696. preemption right for seats of justice,
iv. 50.

live oak, iii. 347, 607 , 651 ; iv. 242 ; v. 611.

cultivation of tropical plants, iii. 374, 667 ; iv. 444, 611 ; v. 154, 302.

La Fayette, ii . 236, 305, 306 ; v. 729. Polish exiles, iv. 743 ; v. 473. inhabitants of New Madrid, iii . 211 , 417,

668 ; iv. 219, 482 ; v. 603. inhabitants of Peoria, iii. 786. settlers on treaty land in Arkansas, iv. 307,
329, 371 , 434, 619, 707.

early settlers in Michigan, ii. 438. back land in Detroit district, ii. 711 ; iii.
390, 724.

early settlers in Mississippi Territory, ii . 229. Upper Sandusky, v. 624. Natchez, ii . 401 , 480.

Detroit, ii. 398 ; iv. 413 ; v. 542. Mobile, iv. 66.

Wyandott Indians, iv. 75.

Sacs and Fox Indians, iv. 740. Creek Indians, iii . 380 ; v. 256. Western Reserve of Connecticut, ii . 56.

Dubuque, v. 666. armed settlers in Florida, v. 502, 671.

inhabitants of Vincennes, i. 221 ; ii . 446 ; iii. 468.

to Pennsylvania, i. 229 ; iv. 153.

Ohio Company of Associates, i. 257 ; ii. 226 ; iv. 618.

John C. Symmes, i. 251 , 266 ; iv. 618. French inhabitants of Galliopolis , i. 442 ;
ii. 350.

Canada and Nova Scotia refugees, i. 547 ;

ii. 100, 242, 270, 556 ; iii . 326.

VOL. VIII.

13

Lands, Public, (continued .) Alibama and Wyandot Indians, ii . 527. John E. Leitensdorfer, ii. 660. New Orleans, ii. 700 ; iii. 465, 661 , 729. to certain claimants in Mississippi mentioned in a certain report, iv. 408. navy-yard at Pensacola, iv. 157.
reserved lands may be leased, ii. 78. town lots in Mississippi Territory, iii. 375. United Brethren, i. 490, 724 ; ii . 14, 155,
236, 271 , 329 ; iv. 56. individuals. See names of each.
Delaware Indians, ii. 448. settlers in Florida, iv. 47. (5.) Confirmation and Adjustment ofClaims
and Titles.
adjustment of claims inthe following states and territories : -
in Alabama, ii . 485 ; iv. 239 ; v. 676. in Arkansas, iv. 52, 298, 399 ; v. 505,
676. in Florida, iii. 709, 754 ; iv. 6, 47, 125,
157, 202, 284, 405 ; v. 485, 667, 671, 673.
in Illinois , iii. 307, 601. See Kaskaskia district, below.
in Indiana, ii. 278, 344, 395 , 446. in Louisiana and Orleans Territory, ii.
324, 391 , 440, 617, 662, 692, 709 713, 807 ; iii. 137, 528, 574, 750 iv. 59, 65, 494, 561 , 749 ; v. 676.
Michigan, ii. 438, 502 ; iii . 390, 572, 724 ; iv. 413.
Mississippi, ii. 70, 229, 303, 323, 400, 480, 526 ; iv. 240, 299 ; v. 676.
Missouri, ii. 748, 812 ; iii. 86 ; iv. 52, 298, 565, 661 ; v. 79, 676.
North- West Territory, ii. 113, 179,446 800.
Ohio, ii. 395 ; iii. 409. South- West Territory, ii. 229, 303 ; iii .
116, 192, 235, 294.
report to be made on validity of the title of certain Georgia companies, i. 444.
confirmation of claims in the following states and territories : -
in Alabama, iii. 699 ; iv. 358, 688. in Arkansas, iv. 65. in Florida, iii. 755 ; iv. 6, 156, 202, 284,
405, 496. in Illinois , i. 221 ; iii . 125, 218, 307,
308, 601. in Louisiana, ii. 353, 391 , 440, 774 ; iii.
121 , 139, 323, 528, 573, 707, 727 ; iv. 81 , 152, 159, 168, 708, 779 ; v. 491 . in Michigan, ii . 437, 710, 711 ; iii . 724 ; iv. 260.
in Mississippi, ii . 765, 776 ; iv. 189, 408 ; v. 740.
in Missouri, ii. 748 ; iii . 121 , 329, 517 ; iv. 65, 219 ; v. 126, 603.
in Ohio, v. 724. Kaskaskia district, ii. 447, 517, 607,
677 ; iii. 125, 219, 344. patents not regularly signed , v. 416. under treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek,
v. 513.
under treaty with Choctaws, v. 180, 211.
in Perrysburg and Croghansville, v. 724.
town of Vincennes. See Vincennes.

98

GENERAL INDEX .

Lands, Public, (continued .)

Lands, Public, (continued .)

commons of New Orleans , ii. 440 , 621 , 665.
in Peoria, iii. 519, 605, 786.

(7 ) Proceeds of Sales of. general acts, i. 144, 549 ; v. 135, 453,
454, 567, 801.

of sales, defective in form only, ii. 61 ;

in Alabama, iii. 491 , 674 ; iv. 432 ; v

v. 73, 416, 534, 671 , 673. A. Ellis and D. Harregal, ii. 527. in Detroit, ii. 398, 439, 710 ; iii. 390,

116, 453, 457, 490, 606, 727. in Arkansas, v. 58, 453. in Florida, v. 790.

512 ; iv. 413 ; v. 541 . Nova Scotia refugees, i. 547 ; ii. 100 ,
242, 270, 556, 712.

in Illinois, iii . 430 ; iv. 431 ; v . 453. in Indiana, iii . 290, 424 ; v. 453. in Iowa, v. 790.

town on Bean River, iv. 334 ; v. 79.

in Michigan, v. 60, 453.

documents presented to commissioners in Louisiana to be classified , &c., v. 173.
reports of claims in Louisiana to be delivered to commissioners of land

in Mississippi, iii. 349, 674 ; iv. 149, 432 ; v. 116, 454, 490, 603, 727.
in Missouri, ii . 235 ; iii. 349, 547, 674 ,
iv. 432 ; v. 457, 464, 603. in Ohio, ii. 175, 226 ; v. 456.

office, v. 649. of Louis Boisdore, iv. 408.
(6.) Preemption. general provisions,
for actual settlers, iv. 420, 503, 678 ; v.

in Louisiana, v. 454. of lots in Detroit, ii. 398. of land of United Brethren," iv.
58.
of site of Fort Fayette, iii . 75 ; iv. 642.

251, 382, 455, 534, 535 . when there is more than one settler on
a tract, iv. 421 ; v. 251 , 455. proofof settlement, iv. 421 ; v. 251 , 456. oath of settler, v. 251 , 456. transfer of rights invalid, iv. 421.
Contra, iv. 496. when proof of settlement was pre-

(8.) Virginia Military Bounty Lands. in general, i. 182, 394 ; ii. 80, 156, 237,
274, 437 ; iii. 773 ; iv. 189, 333, 422, 500, 665, 770, 779 ; v. 262, 329. extension of time for locations, ii. 424,
589 ; iii . 143, 212, 423, 612, 772 ; iv. 189, 395 ; v. 262, 449. between Ludlow's and Robert's lines,

vented, iv. 603, 663 ; v. 382.

iv. 70, 405, 440.

settler inhabiting one quarter section and cultivating another may select, iv. 678 ; v. 382.

boundary of Virginia reservation, ii. 274, 764 ; iii. 423.
no tax on, in Illinois, iii. 431.

in cases of lease, v. 382.

no tax on, in Arkansas, iii. 495.

declaration of intention to claim right

(9.) Other Military Bounty Lands.

of preemption, v. 457. in towns, v. 657. mill owners, ii. 78.

land appropriated for, i. 490, 724 ; ii. 7, 15, 332, 728 ; iii. 287, 332 ; iv. 560, 578, 665, 770.

of purchasers whose lands have re-

in general, i. 222, 490 ; ii . 14 , 236,

verted, iv. 446.

329, 378, 717 ; iii . 286, 395 ; v. 497.

alleged frauds, in Mississippi, under

acts granting bounty on land, ii . 669,

preemption laws, to be investigated, v. 619.

672, 677, 788, 792 ; iii. 3, 96, 97, 98, 147, 194, 286, 394.

granted to certain pilots in Louisiana v. 715.
back lands in Louisiana, ii. 619, 663 ;

act of 1812, ch. 77, to provide for des. ignating, &c., ii . 728.
half- pay in lieu of, iii . 286, 394, 524.

iii. 573 ; iv. 534, 753. back lands in Michigan, ii. 503, 711 ;
iii. 390, 724.

to revolutionary soldiers, iv. 269. duties respecting, transferred to secretary of war, iv. 779.

under contract with J. C. Symmes, i. 728 ; ii. 112, 179, 237, 280.
right of, for seats of justice, iv. 50. note of acts respecting, iv. 420 . special provisions respecting,
in Alabama, iv. 154, 243. in Arkansas, iii . 554 ; iv. 39, 298 ; v .
505, 603.

to persons serving ten years, v. 260, 308.
patent to heirs, how to issue, v. 650. limitation of time, i . 491 , 724 ; v. 497. extension of time, ii. 7, 155, 271 , 329,
477, 555 ; iii. 284, 408, 411 , 487, 617, 776 ; iv. 60, 133, 219, 333, 424, 578, 749 ; v. 497.

in Florida, iv. 7, 154, 204.

certificate of location unassignable, ii.

Illinois, ii. 797 ; iii . 126 , 218 , 307, 330, 430, 573 ; v. 473.
Iowa, v. 507. Louisiana, ii. 619, 663, 807 ; iii. 122,
330, 517, 530 ; iv. 256, 708 ; v. 715. Michigan, ii. 503. Mississippi, ii. 229, 400, 447, 455, 480,
668 ; iv. 154, 408 ; v. 620.

729 ; iii. 287 ; v. 497. in case of loss of warrants or certifi
cates, ii. 237, 317 ; iv. 568, 578. Canadian volunteers, iii . 256, 301 , 393,
641. · withdrawal of location, iv. 189, 190,
500 ; v. 380. no tax on, in Illinois, iii . 431.

Missouri, iii. 122, 330 , 517 ; iv. 298,

no tax on, in Arkansas, iii . 495.

567 ; v . 603.

abstract of, to be given to certain

Ohio, iv. 56 ; v. 261. North-West Territory, ii. 78. Tennessee, v. 412. Wisconsin, v. 247, 521 , 663.

states, iii. 602 ; iv. 1. (10. ) Land Offices and Districts. act of 1812, ch . 63, establisbing a gen eral land office, ii. 717, iv . 11

GENERAL INDEX .

99

Lands

Public, (continued.) act of 1836, ch. 352, reorganizing the general land office , v. 107.
principal clerks in, v. 109, 110, 111. recorder of, v. 111. solicitor of, v. 111 ; office abolished, v.
662. receivers to make returns to, v. 111.

salaries, v. 111 , 112. office hour, v. 112. officers in, forbidden to purchase pub-
lic lands, v. 112. confirmation of patents from, v. 416. certain papers respecting land claims
in Louisiana to be returned to, v. 649. exemplifications from, v. 627. clerks in, to be reduced to sixty, v. 764. general acts, v. 385, 455. in particular states and territories, Alabama, iii . 467 , 571 , 680 ; iv. 479,
571 , 654 ; v. 397, 470. Arkansas, iii . 495, 554, 622 ; iv. 153,
549, 687 ; v. 287, 725. Florida, iii . 756 ; iv. 479 ; v. 567. Illinois, ii. 343, 548, 590 , 649 ; iii. 323,
571 , 700 ; iv. 10, 443, 653, 686. Indiana, ii. 277, 343, 344, 448 , 590 ; iii.
521 , 701 , 783 ; iv. 264, 444 , 654. Louisiana, ii. 394, 618, 619, 620, 665,
663, 714 ; iii. 530, 708, 756 ; v. 287. Michigan, ii. 277, 503 ; iii . 577, 778 ;
iv. 167, 442, 443, 610, 682 ; v. 48, 625.

Mississippi, ii . 230, 440, 480, 548 ; iii. 229, 375, 680 ; iv. 205, 517, 653 ; v. 57, 393.
Missouri, iii. 406, 785, 786 ; iv. 50, 158, 517, 686 ; v. 538.
North-Western Territory, ii. 73. Ohio, ii . 73, 237, 277, 344, 448, 517 ,
590, 649 ; in. 201 , 326, 409, 521 ; iv. 774.

Orleans Territory, ii. 326, 619, 662, 664, 668 ; iv. 159.
Tennessee, ii. 649. Wisconsin, v. 243. in land ceded by treaty with Creeks
of August 9, 1814, iii. 228.
in lands ceded by Choctaws, October 18, 1820, and September 27, 1830, iv. 653.

(11.) Officers employed. for special provisions respecting registers,
receivers, and superintendents of sales, see, above, the acts establishing land offices, and authorizing sales. for special provisions respecting commissioners, clerks, translators, and interpreter, see, above, Confirmation and Adjustment of Tiles. forbidden to purchase public lands , ii. 708 ; v. 112.

general provisions respecting, superintendents of sales , ii . 78, 234 , 345, 448.

register, ii. 76, 282. returns of, ii. 77. authorized to administer oaths to

purchasers, v. 384, 457. percentage of, ii. 77, 282 ; iii . 466. purchases of land by, ii. 77. deputies of, ii. 392. salary of, iii. 466.

Lands, Public, (continued .) penalty on, for giving false information, v. 112. term of office, iii. 582. duty where land is relinquished by a purchaser, iii. 614. fee in such cases, iii. 614 ; iv. 25, 193.
receivers, ii. 75. percentage of, ii. 75, 282 ; iii. 466. salary of, iii. 466. term of office, iii. 582. duty where land is relinquished by a purchaser, iii. 614. fees in such case, iii. 614 ; iv. 25, 193. authorized to administer oaths to
purchasers, v. 384, 457. surveyor-generals,
appointment of, i . 464 ; ii . 233 ; iv. 335. duties and powers of, i. 464 ; ii. 73,
113, 233, 277, 282, 329 ; iii. 229 ; iv. 662 ; v. 758. to give bond, iii. 697. term of office, iii. 697. compensation of, i . 468 ; ii. 234, 305 ; iii. 325 ; v . 26, 758. in Wisconsin Territory, v. 243. in Arkansas, iv. 531. deputies of, ii. 393, 532 ; iii. 718. in Louisiana, iv. 492, 662. power of, extended over Louisiana, ii. 352, 715.
in Alabama, iv. 6. in territories of Illinois and Missouri,
iii. 325, 412, 784.
in Mississippi Territory, iii. 375, 467. in Florida, iii. 718, 755 ; iv . 31. surveyors, see the acts ordering surveys, (above .) fees of, i. 468. duties under acts respecting naval tim
ber, iii. 607.
act to punish obstructions to, iv. 417. translator, ii. 304, 328, 393 ; iii. 324,
572, 713.
secretary to sign land patents, iv. 663 ; v. 111.
(12.) Miscellaneous Provisions. patents to issue to transferees of certain
Indian reservations, v . 256. purchase of land at conflux of the St. Pe-
ter's and Mississippi, v. 365.
purchases in Greensburgh land district may be cancelled, v. 540.
copies, &c., of records to be evidence , iii. 721 ; v. 627.
armed occupation of Florida, v. 502. agent to collect information respecting the
copper mines on Lake Superior, ii. 87. relief of Alibama and Wyandott Indians,
ii. 527.
illegal settlements, ii. 445, 480 ; iii . 260 , 393, 450 ; iv. 665.
land laws to be printed. See Laws, p. 100 . indemnification of claimants in the Missis
sippi Territory, iii . 116, 192, 235, 294. navigable streams to be public highways, i.
491. See Highways, p. 82.
riparian proprietors, i. 491 . road in North-West Territory, ii. 180 towns in Florida established, iv. 357, 601 ,
664 .

100

GENERAL INDEX .

Lands, Public, (continued.)

Laval, Jacint, account of, to be settled, vi. 185

grants in Louisiana made after treaty of - , John , drawbacks allowed to, vi. 813.

St. Ildefonso annulled , ii . 287.

Lavar, William, pension to, vi. 111 .

no land to be purchased except under a Laviolet, Marguerite, Children of, land title com

special law, iii. 568.

firmed to, vi . 328.

abstract of land sales and of bounty lands Law, John, allowed further time to comply with

in Illinois to be furnished to the gover

building regulations, vi. 244.

nor, iii. 602.

Lawler, Thomas J., payment to, vi. 705.

taxes on, by the states, provisions as to, in Alabama, iii. 492. Arkansas, v. 51, 59. Florida, v. 743. Illinois, iii. 431 . Indiana, iii . 291.

Lawrence County, Mississippi, grant of land to the use of schools of, vi . 451 .
Lawrence, Eleanor, allowance to, for damages, vi. 282.
Isaac, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

Iowa, v. 743, 790. Louisiana, ii. 642. Michigan, v. 50, 60. Mississippi, iii . 349. Missouri, iii. 547. Ohio, ii. 175.

Jane M. , pension to, vi. 516.
Captain James, prize money to, iii. 4.
medal for his bravery in the action with the Peacock, iii . 142. Lieutenant- Colonel William , appro-

Tennessee, ii. 382 .

priation for, iii. 588 ; iv. 258.

reservations of, may be leased, ii . 78. Lands,

Officers, &c., prize money allowed to, vi. 159.

taken on execution , how appraised and sold, &c., ii. 61 ; iv. 51 , 414.
for forts, &c., of which the United States have no further use , to be sold, iv. 264.
Land Offices. See Lands, Public, p. 95. Lane, Job, pension to, vi . 24.

William, pension to, vi. 417, 650. B., accounts of, to be set-
tled, vi. 436. Laws, Bolitha, allowance to administrator of,
vi. 588.
Laws of the States,

Lang, James, letters patent to issue to, vi. 502.
Langham, Elias T., accounts of, to be settled, vi. 751.

to be rules of decision, i. 92. inspections confirmed, i. 106, 699. how authenticated , i . 122 ; ii. 298.

Langley, Hezekiah, to be paid for work, vi. 314. Languille, Francis B., to be paid for damage to
property, vi. 259. Lansing, Abraham, account of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 706. Lapish, John, pension to, vi. 23.
Lapsley, Samuel, account of representatives of, to be settled, vi . 119.

to be purchased for state department, i. 97. Laws ofthe United States,
promulgation and publication of, in newspapers, i. 68, 724 ; iii . 145, 439, 576 ; iv. 377; v. 527.
publication of act close of each session, i. 443, 724 ; iii. 439, 440.
treaties to be published , i . 187, 443.

Larceny, i. 116 ; iv . 116. See Theft, p. 168. in District of Columbia, iv . 448.

Larochelle, Joseph, land title confirmed to, vi. 679.

Larrabec, Charles, increase of pension to, vi. 410 .

Lassel, Hyacinth, authorized to enter land, vi. 816.

Lasselle, 928.

authorized to locate land, vi.

Francis, and others, claims of, to be

settled and paid, vi. 605.
Latham, Christopher, increase of pension to, vi . 85.

A. Brown, or any other printer, to have access to rolls, i. 224.
distribution of, i . 443, 519 ; ii. 87, 198, 302, 308 ; iii. 439, 475.
edition authorized in 1795 , i. 443, 496. amendments of constitution to be pub
lished, iii. 439.
prolongation of certain temporary laws, i. 527.
subscription to Bioren and Duane's edition, iii. 129.
distribution of do ., iii . 129, 250, 473. appropriation for including an additional
volume, iii. 207.

J., Heirs of, authorized to relocate land, vi. 538.

subscription to Little and Brown's edition, v. 798.

-, James, authorized to relocate land, vi. 598.
Thomas, released as surety of L. Leroy, vi. 806.
Lathrop, Samuel, pension to, vi. 73. La Tourette, John, overpayment to be refunded
to, vi. 673.

authentication of, i. 69.
edition of the Land Laws, ii. 589, 641 ; iii. 344, 473 ; v. 171.
edition of Laws of Michigan Territory, iii. 565.
edition of Laws of N. Western Territory, i. 285.

Laub, Conrad, accounts of, to be revised, and allowance made to , vi. 251 .

edition of Post-Office Laws, & c . , v. 538. purchase of vol . vi. Laws of United States,

Henry, resolution respecting bravery of, iii. 141.

iii. 786 ; iv. 429. purchase of vol. vii. Laws of United

Laudman, Newman, pension to, vi. 91 . Lauer, Philip, pension to, vi . 26.
Laughlan, Dennis, pension to, vi . 112. Laurens, Frances E. , money granted to, vi. 5.
- Colonel John, account of, to be settled

States, iv. 267. edition of Naturalization Laws, iii. 341 . purchase of Gordon's Digest, iv. 334. to be recorded by secretary of state, i. 69;
repealed, v. 302.

and paid, vi. 514.

Larson, Hugh, pension to, vi. 3

GENERAL INDEX.

101

Lay, Lee, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 93.
Layton, Robert, pension of, to be paid to his heirs, &c., vi. 902.
Lazaretto Point, use of building at, granted to Baltimore , v. 717.
Leach, William, increase of pension to, vi. 83. Lead Mines,

Lehman, Catharine, pension to, vi. 873. -, Lyon, duties paid by, refunded to him,
vi. 45.
Leibert, Ferdinand, claim of, to be settled, vi. 880.
Leighton, Hannah, pension to, vi. 820. Leiper, Thomas, to be paid for loan office cer-
tificates, vi. 252.

sale of, in Missouri, iv. 364. reservations of. See Lands, Public, p. 95. Leakage, custom-house allowance for, i. 672.
Leamaster, Nancy, payment to, vi. 670. Learned, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 24. Leary, Edward, pension to, vi. 111 . Leases, of public lands, when allowable, ii. 78. Leavar, William , pension to, vi . 111 . Leavitt, Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 23.
increase of pension to, vi. 114.

Leitch, Margaret, seven years' half-pay to representatives of, vi. 590.
Leitensdorfer, Colonel John Eugene, account of, to be settled, and land warrant granted to, vi. 97. land warrant
to issue, and allowance to, vi. 606.
John E., compensation for services in war with Tripoli, ii. 617. Lemaitre, John B. , Jr., drawback allowed to, vi. 395.

Nehemiah, pension to, vi. 110.

Lemmon, John, pension to, vi. 417.

Le Blanc, Terence, to be paid for land sold by Lemon, Polly, authorized to locate land, vi

mistake, vi. 572.

780.

Leboeuf, Michael, payment for land to be re- L'Enfant, P. C. , to be paid for services, ii. 298 ;

funded to, vi. 568.

vi. 94.

Le Carpentier, Joseph, certificates of debenture | Lenox, David, appropriation for expenditures of,

allowed to, vi. 367.

i. 447.

Lecompte, Fountain, James, and Thomas, payment to be made to, vi. 185.
Le Count, Samucl, increase of pension to, vi. 124. Lecraft, Benjamin, and another, proceedings
against, suspended , vi . 746. Ledman, William, pension to, vi. 543.

James, debentures of, to be paid, vi . 325. Lent, James W., accounts of, to be settled, vi.
357.
" John, pension to, vi . 651. Leon, Spanish Brig, appropriation for officers
and crew of, iv. 599.

Ledoux, Jean Pierre, land title confirmed to Leonard, Bernard, land claim confirmed to, vi.

widow of, vi. 575.

512.

Le Duc, Mary Philip, allowance to, for services, as translator, vi. 131 .
Ledyard, Henry, appropriation for outfit of, v. 763.
Dr. Isaac, full pay allowed to, for five years, vi. 542.
John, pension to, vi. 25.
Lee, Asahel, Harvey, and Samuel, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 906.

Charles S. , allowance to, vi . 223. Daniel S., entitled to a land patent, vi. 476.
Gilbert, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Lot, pension to, vi. 653. Samuel, pension to, vi. 111. Le Page, John Baptiste, land warrant to be is sued to, vi. 66.

Edward, allowance to, for navy bread, vi . | Le Sieur, Firman, Representatives of, authorized

356, 478.

to enter land, vi. 296.

appropriation for representatives of, v. 487. Elisha, increase of pension to, vi . 84.  Henry, duties on goods imported by, to be adjusted, vi. 187.
amount of a bond refunded to, vi. 271.
released as surety of J. Ricaud, vi. 692.
-, judgment against, to be suspended, vi. 283.
John, duties to be repaid to, vi . 305. Washington, to be allowed the pay ofjudge advocate, vi. 118.
Leech, William, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 172.
Leeds, William, pension to, vi . 25.

Leslie, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 611. Lester, Christopher, and others, fishing bounty
allowed to, vi. 324. Elihu, pension to, vi. 189.
Letcher, Robert P., allowance to, for expenses, vi. 684.
Letters of Marque and Reprisal, against France, authorized, i. 579. regulations of, i. 579, 580. against Great Britain authorized, ii. 755. general act regulating, ii. 759, 792. privateer pension fund, ii. 761, 762. See Pension, p. 130. sale of prizes, ii. 792. against Tripoli, ii . 130.
Letter Carriers, act respecting, i . 740 ; ii . 603 ; iv. 112 ; v. 89.

Lefebvre, Cyprien, land claim confirmed to , vi. Levins, James, donation of $500 to, vi . 166.

499.

Levittre, Joseph, grant of land to, vi. 43.

Lefevre, Bernice, land claim confirmed to heirs Levy, Chapman, authorized to purchase land,

of, ii. 800.

vi. 852.

Lefferts, Leffert, duties remitted to, vi. 14. Le Gendre, Baptiste, land claim confirmed to,
vi. 429.
Leglize, Pierre, erroneous payment to be refunded to, vi. 517.
Le Grange, Gerrit, and others, credit to be allowed on a judgment, vi. 439.

Court, authorized to erect a gaol and court-house in Alexandria, vi . 202.
Court-House, to be paid for, vi . 711. " Judah, increase of pension to, vi . 84. " Nathan, reimbursement to be made to, vi. 797.
Levy Court. See District of Columbia, p . 51

102

GENERAL INDEX.

Lewis, Ambrose pension to, vi. 92. --- increase of pension to, vi. 115.
Amos, pension to, vi. 113. and Clarke, grant of land to, vi. 65. 9 Edwin, right of preemption vested in , vi. 99.
--, Elizabeth, released from suits as executrix , vi. 339.
James, pension to, vi. 33. - John F., increase of duty to be refunded to, vi. 647.
Jonah, duplicate land warrant to issue to, vi. 272.
Mason E., authorized to enter land, vi . 879. -- Merriwether, land warrant to be issued to, and double pay allowed to, vi. 65.
land warrant to be issued to
representatives of, vi . 380 . Michael, to be paid for pilotage, vi. 431 . Moses, to be discharged from prison, vi.
166 .
NNaatbhoathni,el, pension to, vi. 25.
Robert B., patent fees to be refunded to , vi. 897.
Samuel, Senior, discharged from imprisonment, vi . 43.
Thomas, allowance to, for services and expenses, vi. 37.
William B., account of, to be settled, vi . 217.
Winslow and Henry, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 198 .
to be paid for expenses and services, vi. 771.
Winslow , acts respecting his improvements of lighthouses , ii . 691 , 828 ; iii. 110,
357.
Lexington and Ohio Railroad Company, duties to be refunded to, v. 169 ; vi. 663.
Libels and Sedition, punishment of, (obsolete , ) i . 596. on seizures, regulations of, i. 695 ; iii. 21 . consolidation of, iii. 21.
Liberator, Brig, register to be issued to, vi. 371 .  extra duty on, to be refunded,
vi. 600.
Liberty, Ship, collector of New York to be in. demnified for seizure of, ii . 423.
Library of Congress, establishment of, ii . 56, 128 .
rooms to be prepared for, iii. 225, 477. regulation of,
rules may be made , ii. 129. books, by whom to be purchased , ii .
129.
who may take out books, ii . 129, 308, 612.
removal of useless books from, iv. 321 . exchange of duplicates, v . 409. adjustment of accounts of G. Waterston and others, against, iii. 283. return for donations to, iv . 744.
use granted to judges of supreme court, ii. 786.
to attorney-general, and to diplomatic corps , ii. 284 .
to heads of departments, ex-presidents, secretaries of senate and house of representatives, iv. 429.
improvement of law department in, iv . 579; v. 175.

Library of Congress, (continued . ) purchase of library of Thomas Jefferson for, iii. 195 , 225, 226, 246. duties remitted on books for, iv. 82. presentation copies of catalogue of, v. 436, 648 .
appropriation for expense of catalogue, v. 267.
appropriations for, ii. 56, 350 , 667 ; iii. 477 ; iv . 60, 92, 139, 226, 301 , 579 ; v . 170, 175, 222, 346, 379, 586.
salary of librarian , ii . 129 ; iii . 284, 431 , 645 ; iv. 421 ; v. 175, 524.
salary of assistant librarian , iv. 226, 301. salary of additional assistant librarian, v.
431 .
Licenses,
of enemy, use of, prohibited, (obsolete ,) ii. 780 ; iii. 84, 226.
to trade with Indians. See Indian Affairs,
p. 87. Lien,
of mechanics in District of Columbia, iv. 659.
of decrees and judgments, v. 338, 393. on land officers of internal revenue, debts
to United States, i. 594 ; iii. 33, 83, 240 of taxes, iii. 30, 172. where there is a levy of a treasury warrant
of distress, iii . 593.
Lieutenant- General, i . 558, 752. Lighthouses and Light Ships,
state establishments of, assumed by the United States, i. 53, 137, 218, 251, 339, 393, 425, 488.
cessions of jurisdiction with, and reservation as to service of process declared sufficient, i. 426.
service of process in, i . 426. not to be built unless there is a previous
cession of jurisdiction over sites of, iii. 600, 644 ; v. 468. title of sites to be examined before purchase of, v. 468. measures to be taken to procure cessions of jurisdiction over sites, and report of result to be made, v. 463.
salaries of keepers to be determined by secretary of the treasury, iv. 284.
fog-bell of Andrew Morse , Jr. , to be tested, v. 292.
D. Melville's improvement, iii. 699. crimes respecting, iv. 115. Winslow Lewis's improvement of, ii. 691 ,
828 ; iii. 110 , 357. Isaac Dunham's improvement, v. 185. E. Blunt's improvement, v. 292. division of coast into districts, and examina-
tion of lighthouses , v. 292. In particular Places.
Absecum Inlet, v . 183. Amelia Island, v . 185, 292 . Appalachicola Bay, v. 185. Baker's Island , i . 452 ; iii . 316, 599,
780 ; iv. 147, 252, 611. Bald Head, i . 246 , 340, 501 ; ii . 828 ;
iii. 316, 357. Barnegat, iv. 720. Bartlett's Reef, v. 293 , 466. Bass Island, v . 291. Bayou St. John's, ii . 611 . Beach Point, ii . 611 . Bear Island, v. 289.

GENERAL INDEX.

103

Lighthouses and Light Ships, (continued.) Big Sandy Creek, v. 183. Billingsgate Island, iii. 698. Bird Island, ii. 647, 828 ; iii. 110, 316, 357, 535. Black River Point, iv. 346 ; v. 23. Block Island, iv. 345. Boddy's Island, v. 694. Bodkin, iii . 534, 672. Bois Blanc, iv. 283 ; v. 291 . Bombay Hook Island, iv. 346. Boon Island, ii. 659 ; iv. 489. Booth Bay, iii. 644. Brandywine Shoals, iii. 780 ; iv. 172, 275, 720 ; v. 183. Buffalo Creek, iv . 171. Burlington Harbor, iv. 133. Cape Cod, i . 464 ; iv. 489. Cape Elizabeth, iv. 231 , 253. Cape Florida, iii. 698 ; iv . 61. Cape Hatteras, i. 368, 535 ; ii. 65, 214, 465 ; iii. 780. Cape Henlopen, iv. 61. Cape Henry, i. 105. Cape Lookout, ii. 294, 321 , 435, 465, 561 , 647, 828 ; iii . 110, 316, 357,560 . Cape May, iii. 698, 780. Cape Poge, ii . 88. Cape Porpoise, iv. 489 . Cape Romaine, iii . 780 ; iv. 171. Carysfort Reef, iv. 61 , 381 ; v. 185, 292. Cat Island, iv. 231 , 381. Cedar Island, v. 183, 290. Cedar Point, iv. 134. Charleston Harbor, ii. 65. Chatham Harbor, ii . 406 , 466. Chef Menteur, iv. 173. Chesapeake Bay, i. 54 ; v. 183. Chicago River, iv. 491 . Chifuncté River, iv. 721 ; v. 169. Chingoteague Islands, iv. 490. Chippewagan, v. 185. Choctaw Point, iv. 282, 458. Christiana River, iv. 720.
City West Harbor, v. 184. Clay Island, iv. 232, 458. Clark's Point, ii. 57, 271. Cleveland, iv. 346 ; v. 294. Cohansey Creek, v . 183. Concord Point, iv. 171 , 213. Cove Point, iv. 171 , 253 ; v. 169. Craney Island, iii . 535, 600 ; iv. 62. Cross Island, iii . 644, 699. Cumberland Head, v. 183. Cumberland Island, ii. 151 , 321 , 465,
647 ; iii. 110 , 357, 535, 560. Cunningham Creek, v. 23. Cunningham Island , v . 184. Cutter Hunk Island, iii. 698. Dauphin Island, v. 291. Day's Point, v. 184. Delaware Bay, iii. 780. Detroit and Grand Rivers, iii. 534 ; v.
185.
Dice's Head, iv. 282. Drowned Lands, iv. 282. Dry Tortugas, iii . 698 ; iv . 61 . Duck Creek, iv. 284. Dumpling Rock, iv. 282. Dunkirk, iv. 171 ; v. 234. Dutch Island , iv. 134, 147. Eagle Island Point, v. 182. Eaton's Neck, i. 540.

Lighthouses and Light Ships, (continued .) Edgartown Harbor, iv. 282. Egg Island, v. 183. Esopus Creek, iv. 720. Esopus Meadows, v. 183, 290 . Fair Weather Island , ii . 414 ; iii. 672 ; iv. 760.
Faulkner's Island , ii. 125. Fire Island Inlet, iv. 134. Fisher's Island, v . 290. Five Mile Point, ii . 271 . Flats, Point of, iv. 282. Fletcher's Neck, ii. 355. Flynn's Knoll , v. 183. Fort Gratiot, iii . 780 ; iv. 15 , 346. Fort Point, iv. 720. Fort St. Philip, iv. 173. Fort Tomkins, iv. 171. Fox Island, iv. 489. Franklin Island, ii . 406 ; iv. 489 Frank's Island, iii. 698. Galloo Island, iii. 534. Gay's Head, i. 607.
Genessee River, iii . 599 ; iv. 283 George's Bank, v. 157. Georgetown, S. C., i . 418, 544. Gloucester Point, iv . 489. Goat Island, iii . 780 ; iv. 720 , 768 ; .
23, 347, 486. Grand and Detroit Rivers, iii. 534,
600 .
Grand River, iv. 61 ; v. 185. Great Sodus Bay, iv. 61. Green Bay, v. 23, 185, 291 . Gulf of Mexico , v. 185. Gull's Island, ii. 268. Gurnet Head, i . 464 ; ii. 150, 151. Hendrick's Head, iv. 345. Hog Island, v. 183. Holmes's Hole, iii. 360, 535. Hooper's Straits, iv. 172, 213. Hudson River, iv . 345, 720 . Ipswich Harbor, v. 182. Isle of Shoals , iii. 598, 699. Jekyl Island, v. 184 . Kalamazoo River, v. 185. Key West, v. 185. Lake Erie, ii. 612. Lake Pontchartrain, v. 184. Libby's Island, iii. 699. Little Cumberland Island, v. 184. Little Gull Island, iii. 316. Little Watt's Island, iv . 282, 458. Long Island Head, iii. 534. Long Island Sound, ii . 151 , 214, 268,
321, 349, 466, 524 ; iv. 345, 346, 512 ; v. 183. Long Point, iv. 171. Love Point, iv. 720 ; v. 183. Lynde's Point, ii. 151 ; v. 182 290 . Mahon's Ditch, iv. 490. Manitowac River, v. 185. Mantinicus Rock, iv. 171. Marblehead, iv. 720. Mark Island , v . 181. Marshal's Point, iv. 489. Marsh, Point of, iv. 282. Mayo Beach, v . 182, 239 . Michigan City, v. 22, 172. Milwaukie River, v. 185 .
Mississippi Mouths, ii . 294, 321 , 435, 465, 561 , 647, 823 ; . 110, 316, 357, 535, 599 ; iv. 490 ; v. 291 .

104

GENERAL INDEX.

Lighthouses and Light Ships, (continued .) Mobile Bay, iii. 599. Mobile Point, iv. 760. Monamoy Point, iii. 780. Monhegan Island, iii. 698. Montauk Point, i. 251 , 340 , 501 , 544. Moose Peak Islands, iv. 133.
Morgan's Point, iv. 489. Mount Desert, iv. 345 ; v. 181.
Mosquito Inlet, iv . 721 ; v. 185. Nanset Beach, v. 182. Nantucket, iii . 357 , 644 ; iv. 134 ; v.
289.
Naushawn Island , ii . 414 , 561 , 828 ; iii. 316.
Natchez, iv. 171 , 231. Nayat Point, iv. 283. Ned's Point, v. 182 . Negro Island, iv. 720. Neuse River, iv. 229. Neversink Highland, iv. 172. New Buffalo, v. 291 . Newcastle Island , ii. 151 , 214. New London, i. 31 ; ii. 57, 65 . Newport, ii. 125 ; iv. 231 , 768. New Point Comfort, ii. 125, 214, 268,
466 ; iii. 316. Nobsque Point, iv. 282. North Island, ii. 414, 561 . North Point, iii . 534, 599, 672. Norwalk Harbor, iv. 171. Ocracoke, iii. 693. Old Field Point, iii . 698, 780. Old Point Comfort, i. 553 ; ii. 65, 121 ,
268 ; v. 183. Oswegatchie Harbor, iv. 720. Oswego Harbor, iv. 768.
Oswego River, iii . 644 ; v. 173, 294. Otter Creek Point, iv. 282, 346.
Outerthunder Bay Island, iv. 491 . Owl's Head, iv. 61 . Pamplico Point, iv. 282. Pamplico Sound, iv . 61 . Papoose Squaw Point, v. 182. Pass Christian , iv. 346, 491 . Pearl River, iv. 721 ; v. 184. Pemaquid Point, iv. 171. Pensacola , iii. 780.
Penobscot Bay, ii. 228. Petit Coquelles , iv. 173. Petite Manon, iii. 317, 357. Pleasant River, v. 182. Plumb Island Sound, iv. 171 ; V.
289.
Point aux Barques, v. 291 . Point Defer, iv. 134 , 147. Point Gammon, iii. 317. Point Judith, ii. 462, 561 , 647 ; iii . 316.
Point Lookout, iv. 134, 283. Pond Island, iii. 644. Pool's Island, iv. 61 , 283. Port Clinton , iv. 491 . Portland, i. 184, 553 ; iv. 283.
Port Pontchartrain , iv. 721 ; v . 184 . Potomac Creek, v. 184.
Potomac Narrows, iii. 698. Pottawatamie Island , iv . 721 ; v. 23. Presque Isle , ii . 611 , 647 ; iii. 110 , 316,
357, 647, 828 ; v. 291 .
Princess Bay, iv. 171. Put-in Bay, v . 291. Race Point, ii . 317.
Ram Island, v. 181 .

Lighthouses and Light Ships, (continued.) Reedy Island , v. 183 . Rigolets, iv. 490 . Roanoke Island , iv. 134. Roanoke Marshes, iv. 282, 381 . Roanoke Sound, iv. 458. Robin's Reef, v. 183. Rondout Creek, v. 183. Root River, v. 185. Royal Shoal, iv. 171. Saddleback Ledge , v. 182, 289. Saginaw River, v. 185. Salmon River Harbor, v. 183.
Sambo Keys, iv. 61. Sand Island, v. 184. Sandy Hook, v. 466. Sandy Neck, iv. 171. Sands's Point, ii. 349, 524. Sapelo Island, ii . 476, 647 ; iii . 110,
357, 536, 560 ; v. 184. Scituate Harbor, ii. 611. Seguin Island, i . 369, 501. Sharp's Island, v. 183. Shell Castle Island, i . 368 ; iii . 599. Smith's Island, iv. 172. Smith's Point, ii . 125, 214, 268, 415 :
iv. 62, 283. Smith's Point Shoals , iii . 599. Sparrow Point, iii. 534, 599. Split Point Rock, v. 183. South Manitou Island, v. 291 . St. Augustine, iii. 780. St. George's Island, iv . 491. St. John's River, iv. 283 , 346, 721 . St. Joseph's Island , iv. 490 ; v. 184 . St. Joseph's River, iv. 491 . St. Mark's, iv . 283, 346, 458. St. Mary's, i. 368. St. Simon's Island, ii . 270 , 435, 561. Stonington Point, iii. 698. Stoney Point, iv. 134 ; v. 183. Straitmouth Harbor, iv. 720 . Stratford Point, iii. 644 ; iv . 530. Tarpaulin Cove, ii . 414 ; iii . 357. Ten Pound Island, iii. 599. Thomas's Point, iv. 61. Throgg's Neck, iii . 644 , 698 ; iv. 134. Tibit's Point, iv. 172. Tuckanuck Shoal, iv. 173. Turkey Point, iv. 490. Turtle Island, iv. 490, 721 ; v. 184,
291 .
Tybee, iii. 560. Vermilion Bay, v. 291 . Verplank's Point, iv. 61 , 134. Wade's Point Shoal, iv . 134, 147. Wagooshance, v. 291 . Warwick Neck, iv . 134, 147. Watch Hill Point, ii. 349, 524. West Quoddy Head, ii . 406 ; iii . 599 ;
iv . 381 .
Whale's Back, iv . 229, 283 , 345, 381. Whitehead, ii. 435 ; iv. 489. Wigwam Point, ii. 58. Willoughby's Spit, iii . 535 ; i 62. Windmill Island, v . 185. Windmill Point, iii. 535. Wing's Neck, v . 182. Wolfe's Island, iii. 536. Wolf Trap Shoals, iii. 535 ; iv. 62. Wood Island, ii . 355 ; v. 289. Light Money, payment of, ii. 300, 339. See Tonnage Duties, p . 169.

GENERAL INDEX .

105

Lightner, Henry , damages released to, vi . 300. Ligon, Joseph, pension to, vi . 67. Lilley, Isaac, forfeiture to be paid to, vi. 773. Lilly, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners and
crew of, vi. 807. Limitation,
of prosecutions before courts-martial, ii . 369.

Little, William, increase of pension to, vi. 92. to be paid for a horse lost, vi . 336.
Littlefield, Samuel, duties to be repaid to, vi . 241. Little Prairie, land relinquished to inhabit-
ants, iv. 435.
Livaudais, Balthazar Enoul, land claim confirmed to, vi . 498.
Live Oak,

of suits on copyright laws, i. 125 ; ii. 172 ; iv. 439.
of suits on marshals' bonds, ii. 374. of indictments for crimes, i . 119. of suits under slave-trade acts, iii. 452. of terms of office of certain officers, iii .
582.
of claims on United States, i. 245, 301 ,

acts for preservation of, iii. 347 ; iv. 242, 472. appointment of agents, &c., to preserve,
iii. 347, 607. president may employ military and naval
force, and other means to prevent cutting down, iii. 651. purchase of land for, iv. 256. clearances of vessels laden with, iv. 647.

562, 580 ; iii . 264 ; v. 764. of suits on illegal land contracts, iv. 392. of the lien of judgments and decrees, v.
338, 393. general provision limiting suits for forfeit-
ures, & c., i. 119 ; v. 322. limitation of suits under revenue laws, i.
177, 696 ; ii . 290. of suits under acts respecting employing
seamen, ii . 811 .
Linicum, Garland, to be paid for services , vi. 473 .
Lincoln, Benjamin, and others, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 297. -, appropriation for, i. 501 .

suits under laws respecting, iv. 472, 647.
president may purchase, i. 622 ; iv. 242, 724 .

reservation of lands for, iii. 347, 607 ; iv. 242.

certain reservations for, in Louisiana, set aside, v . 611 .
Livingston, Edward, to be paid for timber, vi. 478 .

Colonel James, grant of land to,

John,

vi. 43.

Richard, grant of land to, vi . 570.

Taliaferro, claim of, to be paid, iv. 302 ; vi. 453.
Walter, allowance to, in full satis faction of claim , vi. 573.

9 Elijah, land warrant to issue to, vi. 571. | John, pension to, vi. 23.
9 " increase of pension to, vi. 101 . Jotham, Administrator of Samuel B. L.,
payment to be made to, for damages, vi. 568 .
Lindsay, John, pension to, vi. 33.
J. J. M., judgment against, to be paid, vi. 750.

Lloyd, Edward, pension to, vi. 91. Loans,
temporary provisions for special objects, (obsolete ,) i. 105, 214, 224, 262, 328, 345, 395, 404, 418, 4:3, 439, 487, 494, 534 ; ii. 202, 247, 292, 349, 610 ; iii. 179, 205.
to discharge former debts, i. 139, 142, 186, 187, 218, 281 , 282, 370, 410 , 433, 448, 516 ; ii. 415, 783.

Lindsley, Samuel, pension to, vi. 81. Linguist, Charles, allowed to enter certain land,
v. 715. Lining, Polly, exempted from suit, vi. 785. Linn County, Iowa, commissioners of, author-
ized to enter land, vi. 844.

for the use of the city of Washington, i. 461 , 551.
loan of seven millions in 1798, i . 607, 609. loan of two millions in 1799, i . 726. loan of three and a half millions in 1800 ,
ii. 60.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 543. Linsey, Morris, Assignees of, to be paid for
work, vi. 296.

loan in 1802 to pay Dutch debt, ii. 169. stock created in 1803 to pay French claims,
ii. 245, 771.

Linton, George, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

loan of five millions in 1811 , ii. 656. loan of eleven millions in 1812, ii. 694 , 784.

Mary Ann, pension to, vi. 923. Lionberger, Peter, to be paid for a horse lost,
vi. 881 .

loan of sixteen millions in 1813, ii. 798. loan of seven and a half millions in 1813,
iii. 75.

Lippincott, J. and W., and Company, claims of, to be settled, vi. 510.
Lipscomb, Lucy M., money deposited by mistake, to be paid to, vi. 427.
List, of patents, iv . 559 ; v. 195 . of clerks of custom-house, iii. 695.
Litchfield, Joseph, Jr. , and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 372.
Literary Property, in manuscripts, i. 125 ; iv. 438. Little, Ann, her husband's pension to be paid
to , vi. 418.

loan of twenty-five millions in 1814, iii. 111, 161.
loan ofthree millions in 1814, iii . 144 , 161. loan of eighteen and a half millions in
1815 , iii. 227. repeal of acts authorizing loans, iii. 377. loan of three millions in 1820 , iii. 582. loan of five millions in 1821 , iii. 635. loan of twelve millions in 1825, iv. 129. exchange of stocks for those with a less
rate ofinterest, iii. 663. certificates of funded debt for debts of

, Doty, duties to be repaid to, vi . 241 . , George, damages allowed to, vi. 63. " John, pension to, vi. 68.

Josiah F., and others, allowance to, vi. 565.

-, Otis, duties to be repaid to, vi . 305.

VOL. VIII.

14

states assumed by United States made assignable, iii. 651 ; iv. 73, 129. stock created for Spanish claims , iv. 33. loan office certificates, i . 353 ; iii. 425, 696. commissioners of loans, i. 139, 216 , 282, 486 .

106

GENERAL INDEX.

Loans, (continued.)

Louisiana, Territory of, (continued. )

duties of commissioners of, transferred to

government of, ii. 283, 322, 743.

Bank of United States, iii. 360 ; repealed,

district of Louisiana to be called territory

v. 8. loan of twelve millions authorized in 1841 ,

of Louisiana, ii . 331 . government of, ii. 331 .

v. 433. extension of time, v. 473.

additional compensation to secretary of, in 450.

form ofcertificates, v. 474, 581 , 582.
duties pledged for repayment of, v . 474. additional loan of five millions author-

loan to pay for purchase of, ii. 245, 771 . laws extended to , ii. 251 . importations into, ii. 251.

ized in 1842, v. 469.

treaty of cession of in 1803, viii. 200.

sale of, limited to par, v. 581 .

Louisiana, State of,

to be for bona fide loan, v . 581. stock may be issued in lieu of treasury

establishment of, ii. 641. admission into the Union , ii. 701 .

notes, v. 614.

limits of, enlarged , ii. 708.

Lobdell, Ebenezer, to be paid for extra labor, vi. 807.

provision for suits pending at time of admission, ii. 743.

John L., land title confirmed to , vi. 559. Lockwood, Nathan, pension to, vi . 178 , 416.

boundary line with Arkansas to be run, iv. 276 .

Logan, John, pension to , vi. 650.
-, Patrick, pension to, vi. 123. Lombas, Manuel, land claim confirmed to, vi .
501 .

practice in district courts regulated, iv. 62.
mode of selecting jurors in United States courts, iv. 404.

Long, James, pension to, vi. 416. John, pension to, vi . 100.

interpreter provided for eastern district of, iv. 492 ; vi. 467.

" increase of pension to, vi. 233. " allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 405 .

inhabitants authorized to enter back lands, iv. 534.

Longchamp, I. P. , debentures to be paid to, vi. 187 .

for other provisions as to lands in, see Lands, Public, p. 94.

Longitude, of Washington to be ascertained, iii.

648, 673.

Longstreet, Gilbert, and another, claim of, to be

settled, vi. 716.

Lopez, Antonio,

land claim confirmed

, Widow Francisca, to, vi. 499.

Maria,

Loomis, Erastus, account of, to be settled, and

resolution respecting the good conduct of people of, in late war, iii. 248.
payment to, for services of militia in the Seminole war, v. 542.
notes of acts and decisions respecting, ii.
283, 288, 701 ; iii. 774 ; iv. 62.
Louisiana, grant of land to the governor of, vi 108.

pay of second lieutenant of marines allowed him , vi . 159 .
Gustavus, account of, to be settled , vi. 159 .
Jarius, prize money to be paid to , vi . 778.
Leonard, pension to, vi . 725.

District of, between the Hondo and Sabine Rivers, claim to land in, confirmed, vi. 382.
Township 7 of Range 12 in, author. ized to enter land, vi. 855.
9 claims to land in, confirmed , vi . 682. Revenue Cutter, vi. 249.

" Lucy, payment to, vi . 565.

school lands in, to be sold and others

Samuel, pension to, vi. 25.

reserved, vi. 764, 776, 783 .

" increase of pension to, vi. 101 . Louisville and Portland Canal Company, sub-

Walter, and another, claims of, to be

scription to stock in, iv. 162, 353.

settled and paid, vi. 679

Louisville Savings Institution, deduction of in-

Looney, John, increase of pension to, vi. 865.

terest to, vi. 756.

Lord, Ebenezer, pension to, vi . 364, 416. -, George, pension to, vi. 25.

Love, Alexander, land title confirmed to, vi . 444 .

Samuel, conditionally discharged from a

1 George, to be paid for advances , vi. 332.

judginent, vi . 891.

Lovejoy, Joshua, pension to, vi. 23.

S., and others, fishing bounty

increase of pension to, vi . 76.

allowed to , vi. 606. Loring, Israel, drawback allowed to, vi . 22.

Loveless, Mary, authorized to enter land, vi . 374.

Lorraine, Edwin, Representatives of, and others, proceeds of seizure to be paid to, vi . 464.
Lott, Nicholas, pension to, vi. 75. Lotteries,

Lovely, Percis, land reserved and payments made to, vi. 465.
Low, Christiana, pension to, vi . 864 . -- , John, pension to, vi . 233 .

in the District of Columbia, ii. 726, 728 ; Lowe, James, allowance to , vi . 886.

iv. 205.

Lowell, William, pension to, vi. 23.

sale of tickets suppressed, v. 578.

Lower, Hartman, pension to, vi. 417.

postmasters not to act as agents for, &c . , Lowman, Emory, pension to, vi . 178.

iv. 238.

Lowrey, John, increase of pension to, vi. 84.

Louderman, John, pension to , vi . 310.

Lowry, R. J., pension to , vi. 189.

Louisiana, Territory of, president to take possession of, ii. 245.

Lubeck, duties on ships and goods of, iv . 2 , 228 ; iii.

former government continued , ii . 245. payment of officers, ii. 272. divided into Orleans territory and Louis-

Appendix I. See Discriminating Duties, p. 49. treaties with, viii. 366, 386. See Hanseati

iana district, ii. 283, 287.

Republics, p. 80.

GENERAL INDEX .

107

Luckett, Craven P., allowance to, for services, | M'Clelland, Thomas, released as surety of S.

vi. 324.

Smith, vi. 757.

Lucas, Elisha, pension to , vi . 648. 1 George, pension to , vi . 417.
-, Henry, appropriation to pay for teams, vi. 813.
Thomas, pension to , vi. 232. Ludlum, George, land warrant to issue to, vi.
565.

M'Clenden, James, claim of, to be paid, vi . 333. M'Clennon, John, increase of pension to, vi.
155.
M'Ciung, Hugh, allowance to, for land, vi. 349. James, amount of a certificate to be
paid to, vi. 284. M'Clure, John, pension to, vi. 189.

Ludlow, Gulian, debentures to be paid to, vi. 325.

-, appropriation to pay, iv. 215. Rachel, payment to, vi . 335.

Lunatics in District of Columbia, to be sent to

William, accounts of, to be settled,

asylum at Baltimore, vi. 818.

and land warrant to heirs of, vi. 335.

Lunt, William, pension to, vi . 24. Lusk, Hugh, pension to, vi . 578.

" allowance to, for services, vi. 379.

Lydia, Privateer, allowance to captors of, vi . | M'Comb, Samuel, allowance to, for services, vi.

747 .

787.

Lynch, Dominick, estate of, released to his chil- M'Cord, David, credit to be allowed to, vi. 673.

dren , vi. 616.

John, to pay and satisfy the claim of,

George, pension to, vi. 577.

vi. 2.

Henry, release of his father's estate to, vi. 786.
Peter, land title of, to be extinguished , vi. 379.
Lyon, George, to be paid as clerk, vi . 125.

M'Cormick, Charles, pension to, vi . 26. Peter, land claim confirmed, vi.
530.
William, authorized to relinquish land, vi. 502.

Lucius, appropriation for, iv. 697. Matthew, fine refunded to heirs, &c. , of, vi. 802.
Robert, pension to, vi. 190. Lyon and Howard, appropriation for, v. 416. Lysle, John and Margaret, account of, to be
settled and paid, vi . 119.

M'Cowen, William, and others, allowance to, vi. 565.
M'Coy, Ephraim, pension to, vi. 3. M'Cracken, David, pension to, vi. 177. M'Cray, Michael, pension to, vi. 761. M'Creary, John, pension to, vi. 441. M'Culloch, Hugh, purchase money to be repaid
to, vi. 310.

M.

M'Cullock, Robert, pension to, vi. 139.

M'Dermott, Michael, pension to, vi. 177.

M'Alhany, Allen B., military land warrant to M'Donald, Donald, pension to, vi. 26, 92.

issue to, vi. 386.

Hugh, to be paid for a horse im-

M'Allistor, Randal, pension to, vi. 76.
M'Annally, Jesse, pension to, vi. 189. M'Barney, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi.
233 .

pressed, vi. 713. James, allowance to administrator
of, vi. 237. William, allowance for bounties to

M'Call, Archibald, duties refunded to, vi. 142.

administrator of, vi. 237.

Lieutenant Edward R., gold medal to relatives of, iii. 141.
M'Calla, Andrew , released as surety of J. Crockett, vi. 350.
Robert, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 230.
M'Callum, Archibald, to be paid for property

M'Donell, John, to be paid for fuel, vi. 625. M'Donough, John, land claim confirmed to, vi.
482.
M'Duff, Captain Daniel, pension and land warrant granted to, vi. 410. authorized to locate land , vi. 415 .

destroyed, vi. 844.

M'Elduff, Daniel, pension to, vi . 101 .

M'Carroll, John, land scrip to be issued to, vi . | M'Ewen, Patrick, pension to, vi. 651.

781 .

M'Farlane, Henry, pension to, vi. 113.

M'Carty, Daniel, pension to, vi. 112.

J., accounts of, to be settled, vi .

-, Edward, allowance to, for property

935.

destroyed, vi. 270.

M'Farland, James, to be credited with excess

James, claim of, to be settled , vi. 494 .

of payment and interest, vi. 266.

John, allowance to, for a house destroyed, vi. 703.
L., to be paid for expenses, vi. 792 .
M'Cauly, Daniel, penalty remitted to, vi. 133. Francis G., payment to, vi . 832.
M'Causland, John, military fine to be returned to , vi. 234 .

arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 725.
pension to, vi. 417. ? Moses, pension to , vi. 24. M'Gee, Mary, and another, authorized to enter land, vi. 902 .
M'Gennis, Hugh, claim of, to be paid to his administrator, vi. 596.

Robert, pension to, vi . 543. M'Chesney, John, pension to, vi. 91 . M'Clain, John, pension to, vi. 417.

M'Ghee, Linn, authorized to enter land, vi 689.
Lynn, authorized to enter land, vi. 677.

M'Clannahan, William, pension to, vi. 83 .

M'Gibbon, Joseph, pension to, vi . 3.

M'Cleester, Henry and John, claim of, to be M'Gibbony, Patrick, commutation of half-pay

settled and paid , vi . 172 .

to, vi. 720.

M'Clellan, John, pension to, vi. 732.

M'Gill, James, release of land to, vi . 905.

M'Clelland, John, half-pay of, to be paid, vi. M'Ginnis, John, bounty lar warrant to issue

735

to , vi. 906.

108

GENERAL INDEX.

M'Girth, Captain, and Company, acts of 1822, | M'Rown, Patrick, and others, fishing bounty al-

c. 48, extended to, vi. 328.

lowed to, vi. 618.

M Gown, John, grant of land to, vi. 43. M'Gregor, Alexander, debentures to be paid to,
vi. 187.
M'Grew, John, land claim confirmed to, ii. 480 ; vi. 246.
M'Guire, Andrew, increase of pension to, vi. 84 .
M'Hatton, William, pension to, vi. 26. M'Hugh, John, land claim confirmed to repre-
sentatives of, vi. 495. M'Ilvain, Ebenezer, pension to, vi . 26. M'Ilvein, Ebenezer , increase of pension to, vi.
115.
M'Intire, Daniel, pension to be paid to representatives of, vi. 456.

M'Toksin, Jehoiakim, to be paid for services, i. 105.

M'Vicar, Archibald and Nathan, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.
Macdonough, Captain Thomas, thanks of con gress to, for victory on Lake Champlain, in. 245. duties remitted

on a sword to be given to, iii. 662. Macedonian, Frigate, to be rebuilt, iv. 569, 725. Macey, Francis G., and others, duties remitted
to, vi. 299.

Machen, Thomas, pension to, vi. 76.

Machin, 155.

increase of pension to, vi,

Thomas, half-pay of a captain allowed Machinist in Patent Office, v. 118.

to, vi. 7.

Mack and Conant, account of, to be settled , vi.

M'Intosh, John H., and another, authorized to

354.

enter land, vi. 676.

-, Elisha, payment to, vi. 887.

to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 941.
M'Jimsey, Robert, drawback allowed to, vi. 647. M'Junkin, Joseph, pension to, vi. 82.
M'Kay, Middleton, grant of land to, vi. 521 . M'Keever, Lieutenant Isaac, allowance to, for
expenses, vi. 357.

Mackall, Benjamin H., to be paid for a house destroyed, vi. 707.
Mackay, James, authorized to file a Spanish land warrant, vi. 213.
Mackerel Fishery. See Fisheries, p . 91. Mackie, Peter, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187. Macnamara, John, penalties remitted to, vi. 99.

M'Kensie, Jumes, appropriation for annuity, ii. Macomb, Alexander, land title confirmed to, vi.

120.

228 .

M'Kewen, Michael, satisfaction to be entered on
judgments against, vi. 335. M'Kim, Hannah, land claim confirmed to, vi.
497.

Representatives of, discharged from a bond, vi. 883.
William, allowance to, for damages to property, vi. 266.

M'Kinney, Augustus, penalty remitted to, vi. | Macomb, Major- General, thanks of congress to,

138.

for good conduct at Plattsburg, iii. 247.

appropriation to pay

medal of, to be re-

judgment against, iii. 211.

placed, iv. 17.

M'Kinstrey, John, increase of pension to, vi. 77, 85.
M'Kissick, Daniel, pension to, vi. 33. M'Koy, John, increase of pension to, vi. 77. M'Lean, Angus, payment for services author-
ized, vi. 20. M'Laland, William, pension to, vi. 83. M'Lure, John, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 325.
M'Mahon, James, to be paid for expenses of suit, vi. 715.
M'Millan, John, pension to, vi. 178. M'Murtry, John, pension to, vi. 417. M'Nair, Alexander, to be paid for a house de-
stroyed, vi. 314.
Dunning R., to be paid as mail contractor, vi. 938.
Matthew, account of, to be settled and paid, vi. 275.

Maddox, William R., allowance to, for bricks delivered, vi. 275. and another, to be paid for services, vi. 327. -, payment to, for bricks, vi. 401 .
Madison Barracks, loan of, to a military and scientific school, iv. 322.
Madison, Mrs., franking privilege of, v. 107, 379. -, reconveyance to her of her husband's manuscript Debates of Convention, v. 205.
Madison, James, franking privilege of, iii. 350. -, papers of, to be published, 
309.
purchase of papers, v. 171. Maffitt, John S., accounts of, to be settled, vi.
312.

M'Neal, Hugh, land warrant to be issued to, vi. Magazines and Armories.

66.

See Arsenals, p. 9.

James, pension to, vi. 154.

establishment and regulation of, i. 352,

and Taylor, claims of, to be settled, vi.

555 ; ii. 61.

172.

setting fire to, punished, iv. 115.

M'Neill, William G. , appropriation for expenditures of, v. 379.
M'Niel, Niel, pension to, vi. 722. Joseph, to be paid for damages to prop-
erty, vi. 259.

Maggart, Henry, pension to, vi. 657. Magnetic Telegraph, appropriation for testing
the capacity and usefulness of, v. 618, 757.
Magruder, Elizabeth, payment of five years ' full pay to, vi. 490.

M'Anulty, Giles, and Wife, lands released to, vi. Maguire, Bartholomew, payment of arrears of

441 .

pension to, vi. 909.

M'Nulty, John, pension to, vi . 178 . M'Nutt, Alexander, pension to, vi. 365. M'Pherrin, Clark, pension to, vi. 339. M'Pherson, William, pension to , vi. 930.

" John H., payment to, vi. 561 . Mail.
See Post Office, p . 137 ; and iii. 102. robbery of, iv. 108.

GENERAL INDEX .

109

Mail, (continued .) offences against, iv . 102 to 114 ; v. 86, 87, 732 .
treaty stipulation concerning transportation of, over Isthmus of Panama, viii. 584.
-, British, how transmitted to Canada, v. 718.
Maims and Maiming, punishment, i. 115. Maine, State of,
admission into the Union, iii. 544. representatives of, iii. 555. repairs of Mars Hill military road in, iv.
716.

Mann, Ariel, and others, moneys to be refunded to, vi. 456. William, accounts of, to be settled and paid, vi. 592.
Manney, James, proceedings against sureties of, suspended, vi. 746.
Manning, Jeremiah, to be paid for hay, vi. 291. Mansell, George, administrator of, to be allowed
credits, vi. 368.
Manslaughter, crime of, i. 113.
where life is lost by carelessness, & c. , of persons employed in steamboats, v. 306.

payment to, for expenses connected with the disputed boundary, iv. 377, 739 ; v. 265, 490.
payment to, for militia services, v. 490. payment to, under treaty of Washington,
v. 623, 695. Maitland, William, debentures of, to be paid, vi.
325.
Major- Generals, number of, i. 222, 483, 507, 604 ; ii. 671 , 801 ; iii. 225, 615.

Manual, Cobb's, appropriation to purchase, iv. 627.
Manuscript, penalty for pirating, i. 125 ; iv. 438. Manzanal, Cuesta, bond of, to be cancelled, vi.
376.
Maps, depot for, v. 576. distribution of, v. 660. of North Carolina coast, sale of, ii . 504.
copyright of. See Copyright, p. 41 . Marblehead, surveyor of the customs at, ii. 301.

pay of, i. 223, 242, 484, 604, 750 ; ii . 801 ; | Maquet, Anthony, grant of land to, vi. 35.

iii. 225, 615.

Marine Corps,

aid-de-camp of, i. 223, 483, 604, 753 ; ii.

act of 1798, ch. 72, establishing and organ-

671 , 801 ; iii . 115, 225, 615.

izing, i. 594.

waiters of, iii. 114.

oath of officers and marines, i . 595 ; iv. 713.

Major, Martin, land claim not confirmed to, vi . 683.

exemption from arrest, i. 595, 596. may do duty on shore, i. 596.

Malabar, British Ship, thanks of congress to her

pay in, i. 595 ; iv. 646, 713.

officers and crew, for exertions to save the

staffin, i . 595 ; iii. 124 ; iv. 713.

steamer Missouri, v. 720.

pensions in, i. 595. See Pensions, p. 130.

Malarin, Gregoire, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

to be subject to rules and articles, i . 595 ; iv. 713.

Malcolm, Henry, to be credited with money lost, vi. 184.
Malette, Therese, Representatives of, authorized to locate lands, vi. 870.
Malicious Mischief, to persons, i. 115 . to property, iv. 115, 116.
Mallaby, Francis, payment to, vi. 767. Malone, Daniel, authorized to enter land, vi .
756. Man, Spencer, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 21. Manac, Samuel, claim of, for property destroyed ,
to be settled and paid, vi. 171.
Mandamus, Writ of, when and whence issuable, i. 81 .
Mandate, for Execution, when from supreme court, i. 85, 86.
Manifests, obsolete provisions respecting, i . 38 , 61 , 155, 159, 177, 311. required in case of imports, i. 644. forms of, i. 645.
forfeiture for having no manifest or an imperfect one, i. 646.
to be exhibited, i. 646. to be certified on arrival, i . 646, 647. penalty for not exhibiting, i. 647. penalty on officer for refusing to certify,
i. 647, 648.
in case of steamboats on Lake Champlain , iii. 396.
before clearance, iii . 542. on entries from adjacent territories, iii.
616, 781. where slaves are transported, ii. 429, 430.

augmentations of, authorized ; in 1799, i. 729 ; in 1800 , ii. 544 ; in 1814, iii. 124.
lieutenant-colonel commandant of marines, i. 39.
term of enlistment in, i . 595 ; ii . 544 ; iv 647 ; v. 795.
brevet rank in, iii. 124 ; iv. 713, 714. peace establishment of, iii. 376. emoluments continued up to February 28,
1831, iv. 430. appropriation for, iv. 461. continued indefinitely , iv. 605.
pay of brevet majors, iv. 580. bounty on enlistment abolished, iv. 647. act of 1834, ch. 132, for the reorganization
of, iv. 712. rank of officers in , iv. 713.
president to prescribe military regula tions, iv. 713.
benefits of the act of 1827, ch . 42, giving increased pay to captains and subalterns in the army, extended to the marine corps, iv. 718.
Marbury, William, authorized to enter land, vi. 811.
March, John, Widow of, pension to, vi . 775. Marcus, William, authorized to enter land, vi.
790.
Marechal, Joseph, allowance to, vi. 304. Marero, Bisente, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500. Margery, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 23. Marigny, Bernard, land claims confirmed to, vi,
480.
Prosper, land claim confirmed to, vi. 488.

Mankin, Isaiah, exempted from imprisonment Marin, E., and another, land claim confirmed

for debt of United States, vi. 50.

to , vi. 499.

110

GENERAL INDEX.

Marine Hospital at Charleston, S. C. , appropri- | Marshal, (continued .)

ation for, vi . 419. Marine Hospitals. See Hospitals, p . 84.

to return special juries, in certain cases, 167 .

Mariners. See Seamen, p. 153.

to collect fines of delinquent militia, i. 265,

Maritaurus, Joseph, land claim confirmed to

425.

representatives of, v. 493.

to adjourn courts in certain cases, i. 76 ; ii.

Markham, Jeremiah, pension to, vi . 25.

291 .

9 increase of pension to, vi.

to remove settlers on public lands, ii . 445.

84, 93.

to serve treasury distress warrants against

William, payment to be refunded to, vi. 842.

delinquent debtors, iii. 592. to settle accounts of prize proceeds for navy

Markin, Charles, allowed to withdraw entries

pension fund, iii . 287, 288.

for land, and payments to be transferred, vi. 157.
Markley, Charles, certificate for commutation of half-pay allowed to, vi. 4.

bonds of, suits on , regulated , ii . 372. copy of, evidence, ii. 373. judgment on, security for future breaches, ii. 374.

Marlow, Susan, authorized to enter land, vi. 678, 689.

limitation of suits on, ii. 374. to execute orders of the president under

Marque. See Letters of Marque, p. 101 .
Marrero, Felix, land claim confirmed to, vi. 498.

the alien law, i . 572. to render accounts of fees, & c., v. 483,
484.

Marrs, Darby, pension to, vi . 139.

compensation limited, v. 427, 428, 483, 484.

Marsh, Allyn, pension to, vi. 25. James, debentures allowed to, vi. 593.

no appropriation to be paid to any one who has failed to make returns, v. 764.

Marshal,
appointment of, generally, i. 87 ; ii. 164. in Alabama, northern district, iv. 399. middle district, v. 316.

deputies of, appointment, i. 87. removal, i. 87. oath, i. 87, 625.

in New York, northern district, iii. 235.

fees of, i. 93.

in Pennsylvania, western district, iii. 463.

for attending court, i. 217, 276, 625 ; iii. 133 ; iv. 8.

in Mississippi, northern district, v. 248. in Tennessee, third district, v. 250.

for service of process, i . 276, 624, 727.

in Virginia, western district, iii. 479. See also the various acts establishing
judicial districts. term of office, i. 87. to attend courts , i. 87, 396, 626. to execute precepts, i . 87. to command assistance, i. 87 ; iii. 197, 233. to give bonds, i . 87 ; ii. 164.

in admiralty cases, i. 333, 451. for extra services, i . 625 ; ii. 468. for taking the census. See Census,
p. 24. note of decisions respecting, ii. 372. in territories, ii . 806 ; and see the titles of
the respective territories. in District of Columbia, see that title, p.

to take oath, i. 87.

51.

service of writs, when marshal interested, Marshal of Eastern District, Pennsylvania,

i. 87.

judgments against, to be paid, vi. 510.

service ofwrits, in case of death of, i. 87.

--, Philip, allowance to, vi. 715.

deputies to continue after death, or removal from office, i. 87.
his sureties liable for misfeasance of depu-

" John, allowance to representatives of, vi. 715.
appropriation for, iv. 453.

ties, in such cases, i. 87. remedy of representatives of marshal for

chief justice, appropriation for bust of, v. 25.

default of deputies, i. 88. precepts in his hand, at the expiration of

William, appropriation for, iv. 791 ; v. 301.

office, may be served, i. 88.

Marsters, Stephen, purchase money to be re-

to deliver over prisoners to his successor, i .

funded to, vi. 788.

88 .

Martin, Arnold, and another, fishing bounty al-

to have the same powers as sheriffs, in executing the laws, i. 265, 425.
to have custody of vessels and goods seized, i. 277 ; but see act of 1799, ch. 22, § 69, i. 678.

lowed to, vi . 891 . Edward, to be discharged from prison,
vi. 152. François, land claim of, confirmed to,
vi. 808.

to pay expenses of courts, i. 277. maintenance of prisoners, i. 277.
his accounts, how settled and paid, i. 277. to summon appraisers on executions, in
certain cases, i . 335. duties on surrenders of bail in other dis-

John, pension to, vi. 92, 112. claim of, to be paid, vi. 284. L., and another, authorized to pur
chase school land, vi. 529. Joseph, and others, authorized to enter
lands, vi. 313.

tricts, i. 727. to sell lands set off on execution to United
States, provided for, ii. 61 . to sell goods, & c . , condemned, i . 696, 697. sale of lands on execution to be perfected
by his successor, in case of death or remioval, ii. 61.

J., pension to, vi. 837. Knott, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 891. Richard, pension to, vi. 644. William, pension allowed to, vi. 26. Martinique, commercial intercourse with, iv 269, 573.

GENERAL INDEX .

111

Mary Francis, Schooner, bounty allowed to Matthews, William B. , overpayment to be re

owners and crew of, vi. 918.

funded to, vi. 465.

and Frances, Ship, case of, to be decided Mathiot, Ruth, pension to, vi. 900.

by-secretary of the treasury, vi. 104 . Hannah, Schooner, fishing bounty al-
lowed to owners, &c. , of, vi. 582.
Sally, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owners, &c ., of, vi. 606.
Schooner, bounty allowed to owners, master, and crew of, vi. 631. Maryland, acts of, passed April, 1783, and November,
1783, respecting port wardens for Balti more, assented to, i. 184. acts of, passed in November, 1790, and December, 1791 , authorizing a certain duty at Baltimore, assented to, i. 190, 243, 464 ; ii. 18, 484 ; iii. 125, 665 ; iv. 254 ; v. 215, 602. act of, passed December 27, 1793, respecting a health officer, assented to , i . 393, 425, 462, 546 ; ii . 103, 316. act of, authorizing two lotteries in Washington, carried into effect, ii . 728.

Matson, Enoch, authorized to exchange a location, vi. 770. Richard, allowance to, for moneys paid, vi. 267. authorized to withdraw locations, vi. 338.
Maurice, Theodore W., accounts to be settled, vi. 674.
Maxwell, Dr. David H. , claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 711. -, Hugh, pension to, vi. 24. James. See John P. and Hugh Maxwell, vi. 168. land warrant to issue to, vi. 777.
John P. and Hugh H. , right of United States to land released to, vi. 168.
William, grant of land to, vi . 43. debentures to be paid to, vi.
187. pension to, vi. 189.

act of, passed December, 1831, respecting May, James, allowance to, for damages, vi . 266.

the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, assent-

allowance to, for services as mar-

ed to, iv. 602 ; and see iv. 101 .

shal, vi. 360.

appropriation to repay overpayment of, for arms, ii. 823 ; iii. 653.

Heirs of, grant of land to, vi . 875. -, Samuel, allowance to, for property de-

claim of, for interest, to be audited and paid, iv. 161 .
Maryland Avenue, improvement of, v. 134. Masi, F., and Company, payment to, for repairs
on furniture in president's house, v. 429. Mason, Ashbel, land warrant to issue to, vi. 779.

stroyed, vi. 518.
Mayfield, George, grant of land to, vi. 530, 839. pension to, vi. 838. allowed further time to enter
land, vi. 885. -, Micajah, pension to, vi. 417.

Cornelia, half-pension allowed to, vi. Mayflower, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners,

215.

&c., of, vi. 641.

Josiah, and others, allowance to, for ex- Mayhew, Thaddeus, to be paid for property im

penses of suit, vi. 373.

pressed, vi. 298.

Richworth, donation to, vi. 191. Massachusetts Bible Society, drawback allowed
to , vi. 162. Massachusetts,
act of, assented to, i. 546.
admission of a part of, into the Union , as the state of Maine, iii. 544.
apportionment of representatives in the 17th congress, iii. 555.
claim of, on United States, iv. 428 ; v. 132, 623.
Massias, Abraham A., judgments against, to be paid, vi. 545.

Maynard, John, pension to, vi. 24. increase of pension to, vi. 69.
Mayor and Corporation of New York, reconveyance of a tract of land to, vi. 263.
Mays, Elizabeth, pension to, vi. 408, 632. Meachum , Simeon, pension to, vi. 611 . Mead, Joseph, pension to, vi. 609.
Tilley, pension to, vi. 24. Meade, Everard, account of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 602.
Means, Isaac, and others, to be paid for a vessel illegally condemned, vi. 671.
Mears, Samuel, Jr., pension to , vi. 100.

Massingill, Thomas and James, claims of, to be Measurers, appointment and duties, i. 642, & c.

reconsidered, vi . 493.

Measures, Standard, to be distributed, v. 133.

Masters, Henry, authorized to enter land, vi. Mebane, John, and another, authorized to collect

580.

taxes, vi . 293.

Masterton and Smith, contract of, extended, vi . 816.

John B., executors of, authorized to collect taxes, vi. 293, 311.

Mastic, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi . 101 .
Mathematics, Professors of, rations of, v. 576. with whom to mess , v . 576.
Mather, Sarah P., submarine telescope of, to be tested, v. 667.
Mathers, James, payment to, i . 105 ; vi. 38. house rent allowed to, ii. 127.

Mechanics Bank of Alexandria, charter, &c., of, ii. 735 ; iii. 570, 726.
Mechanics' Lien, in the District of Columbia, iv. 659.
Mechanic Relief Society, Alexandria, incorporated, vi . 207. charter of, extended , vi. 825.
Medawah-Kanton Indians, treaty with, of July 15, 1830, vii. 328.

Mathews, Beckford C., land warrant to issue to, vi. 853.
Matthews, Eliza, and others, incorporated, as Sisters of the Visitation, &c. , vi . 383. John, authorized to locate lands, vi. 346 .

Medical Society, District of Columbia, incorporated, vi. 221 . act of incorporation of, revived , vi . 741 .
Medical Department in the Army,
general acts regulating, 1799, ch. 27, 1 721 ; iii. 616 ; iv. 714.

112

GENERAL INDEX .

Medical Department in the Army, (continued . ) Mendenhall, William, allowance to, for horses

number and appointment of officers in,

lost, vi. 359.

surgeons, i. 119, 483, 604, 721 ; ii . 133, Meneghetty, Anthony C., register for a sloop al-

671 , 764 ; iii. 114, 224, 616 ; iv. 550 ;

lowed to, vi. 753.

v. 117, 260, 513.

Meneses, Antonio, land claim confirmed to, vi.

surgeons' mates, i. 119, 483, 604, 721 ;

500.

ii. 133, 290 , 671 ; iii . 114 , 224 ; iv. Menominie Indians,

550 ; v. 117, 513. physician-general, i. 559, 721 ; ii . 819. apothecary-general, i. 721 ; iii. 570. purveyor, i. 721 .
assistant apothecaries, iii. 114, 297, 570.

treaty of March 30, 1817, with, vii. 153. August 19, 1825, with, vii. 272. August 11 , 1827, with, vii. 303.
agreement of February 8, 1831 , with, vii. 342 .
treaty of October 27, 1832, with, vii. 405.

post surgeons, iii. 297. surgeon-general, iii . 426, 616 .

agreement of September 3, 1836, with, vii. 506.

assistant surgeon-general, iii. 426.

Mercantile Insurance Company, duties to be re-

assistant surgeons, iii. 516.

funded to, vi. 413.

pay ofofficers,

Mercer, Hugh, allowance for the education of,

surgeons, i. 120, 431 , 484, 722 ; ii. 133 ;

i. 344, 407, 447, 500 ; vi. 12.

iii. 115 ; iv. 714.

Jesse, land certificate to be delivered

surgeons' mates, i. 120, 431 , 484, 722 ;

to, vi. 293.

ii. 133 ; iii. 115 ; iv. 714.

Joshua, pension to, vi. 179.

physician and surgeon-general, i . 559, Merchandise, not to be carried in public ships,

722 ; ii. 820 ; iii. 115 ; v. 308.

ii. 48.

apothecary-general, i. 722.

Merchant Armed Ships, regulated , ii . 342 ; iii. 511.

purveyor, i. 722.

Mercier, John D. , grant of land to, vi. 43.

military hospitals, i. 721 , 722 ; iii. 225, 297, Merrell, Abner, pension to, vi. 566.

426.

Merrill, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi.

board of examiners, i . 722 ; iv. 714.

83, 233.

members subject to the rules and articles, i. 722.

and Nancy, authorized to sell a reservation, vi. 641 .

notes ofacts, i . 721.

James, pension to, vi . 243.

Medical Department in the Navy,

Joshua, pension to, vi. 153.

general acts, i. 721 ; act of 1828, ch . 121 , iv. 313, 330.

Moses, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 719.

surgeon of the fleet, iv. 313.

Roger, pension restored to, vi. 417.

examination of applicants, iv. 313.

Merryfield, Abraham, pension to, vi. 123.

pay in, iv. 313, 330.

Merryman, Josiah, pension to, vi. 25 .

bureau of medicine and surgery established,

" increase of pension to, vi . 83 .

v. 579, 580.

Meshouda, Moorish Ship,

Medicine Chests of Merchant Ships, regulations of, i. 134 ; ii. 330.
Medina, Juan, land claim confirmed to, vi.

appropriation for prize money to captors of, vi. 54.
committee to wait on president re-

-, Lorenzo, 499, 500.

specting error in said bill , ii. 306.

Mediterranean Fund, provisions for, ii . 292.

Message, Marie, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

Mediterranean Passport, i. 489 ; ii . 208.

Messenger of Electoral Votes,

Mediterranean Powers, appropriations for treat-

duties of, i. 240.

ing with, i. 487 ; ii. 120.

compensation of, i . 240 ; iv. 81 .

Meeder, Edward S. , increase of pension to, and Messonnier, Henry, duties refunded to, vi . 49.

arrears to be paid to, vi. 504.

Mexico,

Meek, William E. , monthly pay of sergeant al-

boundaries of United States on, iv. 558.

lowed to, vi . 265. Megee, William F. , duties remitted to, vi. 44.

treaty of 1839 with, carried into effect, v. 383, 452.

Meigs and Reed, to be paid for advances to troops, vi . 232.

Treaty of Limits with, of January 12, 1828, viii. 372.

Return J., payment to, i. 299, 339. Melchior, Isaac, bond released to representa-
tives of, vi. 243.

Article 1. Boundary the same as fixed by
treaty of Washington , February 22, 1817, viii. 374.

Meldrum, William, appropriation for heirs of, v. 225.

Art. 2. Boundary to begin on the Gulf of Mexico, and end on the South Sea, in

Mellen, Peggy, warrant for bounty land to be issued to, vi. 263.
Richard, pension to, vi . 81. Melone, William, claim of, to be paid, vi. 333. Melter and Refiner. See Mint, p. 115.

latitude 42. Islands in the Sabine, & c., to belong to the United States, viii. 374. Art. 3. Commissioners to be appointed to run the line, viii. 374. Art. 4. Ratifications to be exchanged in

Melville, David, patent of, purchased, iii. 699.

four months, viii. 376. Additional Article, April 5 , 1831 , viii . 376.

Memphis, Tennessee, navy-yard at, v. 626, 665 , 796.

Ratifications of the treaty of January 12, 1828, to be exchanged at the city of

Menard, Francis, land claim not confirmed to, vi. 683 .

Washington, within the term of one year, viii. 376.

Menary, John, allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 483 .

Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation, between the United States of America

GENERAL INDEX .

113

Mexico, (continued .) and the United Mexican States, April 5, 1831 , vii. 410.
Article 1. Peace and friendship between both nations, viii. 410.
Art. 2. The footing ofthe most favored nation secured to both parties, viii. 410.
Art. 3. Entry into the ports of each other, coasting trade excepted, viii . 410.
Art. 4. Duties on the products of the parties. Export duties and prohibitions, viii. 412.
Art. 5. Tonnage duties the same on vessels of either party, viii. 412.
Art. 6. Import duties. Export duties, bounties, and drawbacks, viii. 412.
Art. 7. Merchants, &c., put on the same footing inthe ports ofeither party, viii . 412.
Art. 8. Embargoes, detention , compensa-
tion for, viii. 414. Art. 9. Citizens of either party exempted
from service in the army or navy, viii. 414. Art. 10. Citizens seeking refuge in the
ports of either party, viii. 414. Art. 11. Delivery of vessels, & c. , captured
by pirates, viii. 414 .
Art. 12. Shipwrecks, viii. 414. Art. 13. Succession to personal estate, and
disposal thereof, viii. 414. Art. 14. Persons and property to be pro-
tected, viii. 416.
Art. 15. Security as to religion in Mexico. In the United States, viii. 416.
Art. 16. Security to vessels sailing to or from an enemy's ports. Free ships make free goods. Limitation of the principle, viii. 416.
Art. 17. Where neutral flag protects enemy's property, viii . 418.
Art. 18. Contraband goods excepted and defined, viii . 418.
Art. 19. Blockade defined , viii. 418. Art. 20. Contraband liable to confisca-
tion. Vessels not to be detained if contraband articles be delivered up, viii. 418. Art. 21. Notice of blockade. Free egress allowed in certain cases, viii. 418, 420. Art. 22. Examination of vessels at sea, viii. 420.
Art. 23. Passports and sea-letters during war; if not provided, vessels, &c. , to be adjudged lawful prizes, viii . 420.
Art. 24. Vessels under convoy, viii. 420. Art. 25. Prize courts, viii. 420. Art. 26. In the event of war between the
two countries, removal of property and persons to be allowed, viii. 422. Art. 27. Immunities of merchants and public agents, viii. 422. Art. 28. Consuls , viii. 422. Art. 29. Deserters from vessels , viii. 422. Art. 30. Arrest and detention of deserters, viii. 424. Art. 31. A consular convention to be entered into, viii . 424. Art. 32. Interior commerce ; routes and escorts, viii. 424. Art. 33. Indian hostilities to be prevented. Prisoners made by Indians to be liberated, viii. 424 , 426. Art. 34. Points adjusted between the parties. Treaty in force for eight years. Harmony of the parties not to be interVOL. VIII. 15

Mexico, (continued .) rupted by the acts of individuals. Demand of satisfaction to precede hostilities. Nothing in this treaty to operate contrary to treaties with other powers. Ratifications to be exchanged within one year, or earlier, viii. 426.
Additional Article, April 5, 1831 , viii . 428. Substitution for the fifth and sixth articles
ofthe treaty of April 5 , 1831 , viii. 428. Duties to be equal on the productions and
manufactures of Mexico to those paid on like goods of other nations in the ports of the United States, viii. 428. Convention with Mexico, April 3, 1835, viii. 464 . Commissioners and surveyors to be ap
pointed to run the boundary line, viii . 464. Convention for the adjustment of claims of
citizens ofthe United States ofAmericaupon the government of the Mexican Republic, April 11 , 1839, viii. 526. Article 1. Certain claims to be referred to a board of four commissioners. Manner
of their appointment, viii . 528. Art. 2. The board to have two secretaries,
&c., viii. 528. Art. 3. Meeting of the board, viii. 528. Art. 4. Documents to be delivered to the
board, viii. 528. Art. 5. The commissioners to decide on
the justice of the claims, viii . 530. Art. 6. Mexico to be at liberty to issue
treasury notes for the amount found due, viii. 530. Art. 7. In case of difference between the commissioners as to the claims, the documents shall be referred to the king of Prussia, viii. 530.
Art. 8. The king of Prussia to be invited to appoint an umpire, viii. 530.
Art. 9. In case the king of Prussia declines to appoint an umpire, her Britannic majesty to be invited to appoint, and in case she declines, the king of the Netherlands to be invited to appoint an umpire , viii. 532.
Art. 10. The decision of the umpire to be final, viii. 532.
Art. 11. Treasury notes to be issued, viii. 532.
Art. 12. Mexico to be exonerated from
certain claims, viii. 532. Art. 13. Compensation to the commission-
ers and their secretaries, viii . 532. Art. 14. Ratifications to be exchanged
within twelve months, viii . 532. Convention further to provide for the pay-
ment of awards in favor of claimants under the Convention between the United States and the Mexican Republic of 11th of
April, 1839. January 30, 1843, viii. 578. Article 1. Mexico to pay all interest due
on the 30th April , 1843, viii . 578. Art. 2. Principal and interest to be paid in
five years, viii. 578. Art. 3. Payments to be made in the city
of Mexico in gold or silver, viii . 578. Art. 4. Mexico pledges the proceeds of
direct taxes, viii . 578. Art. 5. Mexico to pay two and a half per
cent. on each payment, to cover charges, viii. 580.

114

GENERAL INDEX .

Mexico, (continued .) Art. 6. A new convention to be entered into for the settlement of all claims on Mexico, viii. 580. Art. 7. Ratifications, viii . 580.
Miami Canal. See Canals, p . 23.
Miami Exporting Company, to be paid for advances, vi . 487.
Miami Indians,

Michigan University, (continued .) exchange of land authorized, iv. 370. Bank of, appropriation for advances by, v. 777. Volunteers, allowance to, vi . 475.
Michillimackinac, Borough, grant of land to, for public purposes, vi . 607.
Middleton, Arthur, appropriation for services of, v. 763.

treaty with, of August 3, 1795, vii. 49. treaty with, of June 7, 1803, vii. 74. treaty with, of August 21 , 1805, vii. 91. treaty with, of September 30, 1809, vii . 113.

Miguel, Juan, Wife of, authorized to locate land, vi. 668.
Mileage, of members of congress, i. 70, 533 ; iii. 404.

Separate article with the Miamies and Eel Rivers, forming part of the treaty of September 30, 1809, with the Delawares, &c., vii. 115.
treaty with, of June 22, 1814, vii. 118.

Miles, John, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi 387.
-, pension to, vi. 655.
Smith M., payment to, vi. 705. Military Academy, at West Point. See West

treaty with, of September 8, 1815, vii. 131 . treaty with, of October 6, 1818 , vii. 189. treaty with, of October 23, 1826, vii . 300. treaty with the Eel River Miamies, Febru-
ary 11 , 1828, vii. 309.

Point, p. 178. Military Agents, provisions respecting, ii. 133,
136, 207.
Military Bounty Lands, Regulation of. See Lands, Public, p . 98.

treaty with, of October 23, 1834, vii . 458, Military Expeditions and Enlistments, prohib-

462, 463.

ited. See Neutrality, p. 123.

treaty with, of November 6, 1838, vii. 569. Military Land Warrants, Regulations of. See

treaty with, of November 28, 1840 , vii. 582.

Lands, Public, p. 98.

annuities to a family of, vi. 942.

loss of, provided for, iii. 317.

Michael, John, land certificate to issue to admin- Military Sites, to be sold, iii. 520.

istrator of, vi . 293.

Militia,

Michigan, Territory of, establishment of, ii. 309.

power of congress over, i. 14. power of the president over, i. 17.

general acts for government of, ii. 309 ; iii. 722, 769 ; iv. 80, 200.
governor of, to act as superintendent of

right of people to bear arms, i . 21 . act of 1792, ch. 33, for establishing, i . 271 . enrolment, i. 271 ; ii. 207.

land sales at Detroit, ii. 345.

arms, i. 271 ; ii. 207.

extra pay to secretary of, ii . 439, 450. additional compensation to judges of, ii .
431 .
addition to territory of, iii. 431 . delegate from, iii . 482. right of suffrage extended , iii . 482, 483, 769.

adjutant-general of, i . 273 ; ii . 207. rules of discipline, i . 273 ; iii . 577, 616, 686
system of, to be prepared, iv. 195. brigade inspector, i. 273. pension for. See Pension, p. 130. existing corps to retain their rights, i . 274.

laws of, to be printed , iii. 565.

officers, i . 273 ; ii . 207 ; iii . 295.

additional provisions as to judiciary of, iii . 722 .

provisions for calling forth, obsolete acts, i . 121 , 264.

clerk of supreme court of, iii. 770 ; iv . 201 .

general act of 1795, ch. 36, respect-

southern boundary of, to be designated, ii. 741 ; iv. 236.

ing, i. 424. to enforce embargo law, ii . 708 ; iii . 92

council of, to take charge of school lands in, iv. 314.

to enforce neutrality act, iii. 449. to protect the frontiers, i. 96.

change of time and place of holding court

provisions respecting, when in service,

for Crawford county, iv . 393. second session of fifth council of, pro-

to be governed by the rules and ar ticles, i . 424 ; ii . 371 .

longed, iv. 650.

rank of officers, ii. 371.

extra session of council authorized, iv. 724 .

courts martial, i. 424 ; iii . 134, 135.

act of, disapproved, ii . 444.

term of service, i . 424 ; iii. 135.

roads opened in, iv. 231. plan of Detroit, iv. 413. See Detroit, p . 48. certain territory annexed to, iv. 701.

penalty for disobedience, i. 424. fines how assessed and levied, i. 424 ,
425.

accounts of, to be settled, v . 541 .

to whom to be paid , i. 425 ; ii . 797.

Michigan, State of, received into the Union, v. 49, 59, 144. provision for the due execution of laws of United States within, v. 61.

pay of, i. 408, 414 ; ii. 797 ; iii . 444, 459 ; v. 7.
temporary act of, 1814, ch . 82, iii . 134. exempts from service in,

public lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94.

persons in employ of post-office de-

boundary between , and Wisconsin , v. 244, 407, 435.

partment, i . 239, 272 , 740 ; ii . 603 ; iv. 112 ; v. 88.

Michigan Militia, claims of, to be settled, vi . 885. University, authorized to sell land, vi .
615. authorized to convey cer-

marines, i. 272. officers of United States, i. 272.
exempts by state laws, i. 272. workmen in armories, ii. 62.

tain lands, vi 628. land reserved for, iv. 180.

persons furnishing recruits to army, iii. 147.

GENERAL INDEX.

115

Militia, (continued .)

Milnor, Robert, and another, allowance to, for

obsolete acts calling out detachments of,

services, vi. 798.

i. 367, 403, 522 ; ii. 241 , 383, 478, 705. Milton, Robert, pension to, vi. 417.

for acts for payment of claims of states for, see the titles of the respective states.
obsolete acts for payment of detachments of, i. 509, 556 ; ii. 82, 269, 683, 787 ; iii . 310, 399, 408, 459 ; iv. 258, 349, 397, 502, 631, 644, 675, 630 ; v. 33, 71, 150, 209, 210, 351 , 459, 460, 628.
in the District of Columbia. See that title ,

Milwaukee and Rock River Canal Company, conditional assent of congress to act of Wisconsin incorporating, v. 247.
Mims, Samuel, title to land confirmed to, vi. 99.
-, Representatives of, to be paid for losses, vi. 300.
Minard, Colonel Pierre, repayment of advances by, iv. 707.

p. 51 .

Miner, Menassah, payment to, vi. 173.

Militia Fines in Pennsylvania, granted to state, iii. 678.
in Virginia, iii. 777. Militia, Michigan, accounts of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 885.

Miners ' Bank of Dubuque, conditional assent of congress to act of congress incorporating, v. 193.
Mineral Point, to be laid out in lots, streets, & c., v. 70.

Virginia, claims of, to be settled, vi. 164 .

-, proceeds of land to be paid to, v. 178.

Millaudon, Laurent, land claim confirmed to, vi . Minifie, Charles, to be paid for a cargo of masts,

499 .

vi. 108.

Millandon, Laurent, exempted from duties, vi . 739.
Miller, Brigadier- General, medal to, iii. 247. -, Christopher, authorized to enter land,
vi. 242, 929.

Minis, Isaac and Henry, to be paid for advances to troops, vi. 232.
Ministers, American, salaries and compensation, i. 128, 541 ; ii . 78, 608 ; v. 525.
Ministers, Foreign,

1 Edward, pension to , vi. 101.
" George, allowance to, for a horse taken , vi. 245.

suits by and against, i. 18, 80. writs against, illegal, i. 117, 118. assaults, &c., on, punished, i. 118.

--, Isaac, authorized to exchange land, vi. | Minneterre Indians, treaty of July 30 , 1825,

765.

with, vii. 261 .

--, James, released as surety of J. H. Alley, Minor, Stephen, pension to, vi. 25.

vi. 268.

--, Thomas, allowance to, for services, vi.

certain acts of, when governor of

587.

Arkansas, confirmed, iv. 18.

Minot, John, duties to be repaid to, vi . 241 .

John, pension to, vi. 190. allowed to enter certain land, v.
715.
land patent to issue to, vi. 909. accounts of, to be settled, and allowance made to, vi. 541. pension restored to, vi. 516. " Mark, pension to, vi. 190. > Martin, pension to, vi. 468. Mary, to be paid for a keel-boat, vi. 327. Nicholas, claim of, for spoliations, to be satisfied, iv. 576.
Noah, grant of land to, vi. 43. -, pension to, vi. 610.

Jonas C., grant of land to , vi. 43. Mint. See Coins, p. 32.
establishment and regulation of, i. 225, 246, 341 , 439, 475 ; ii. 53, 111 ; v. 136, 147, 602, 652.
silver refined at, iii. 774.
continuance prolonged at Philadelphia, ii . 86, 111 , 242, 481 , 787 ; iii. 403, 774 ; iv. 277.
crimes respecting the mint, i . 250 ; iv. 122. standard troy pound, iv. 278.
director to procure a series of weights corresponding to the troy pound, iv. 278.
expense of the test of silver bullion to be

" Robert, penalty to be refunded, vi . 858. 9 Samuel, pension to, vi. 26.
-, appropriation for, iv. 255. Thomas and Baker, to be paid for a
house destroyed, vi . 209. Milligan, Laurence, Representatives of, author-
ized to locate land, vi . 599.
Robert, pension to, vi. 566. Samuel, drawback allowed to , vi. 711 .

deducted, iv . 278. gold and silver to be separated at the ex-
pense of the party, iv. 278. director may cause to be assayed bullion
not intended for coinage, iv. 278. site of old mint to be sold, iv. 425. regulation of the gold coinage, iv. 699. branches to be established, iv. 774 ; v. 147,
602, 652. clerks, iv. 278 ; v. 137.

Milliken, James, claim of, to be paid , vi. 333. Mills, Adam L., to be paid for carrying the mail,
vi. 911 .
John H., land title confirmed to, vi. 350. Peter, pension to, vi . 176.
authorized to locate land, vi . 595.
Robert, appropriation to pay services of, iv. 697.

act of 1837, ch. 3, reorganizing, v. 136. officers in, v. 136, 137.
vacancies, how filled, v . 137. oath of officers, v. 137. bonds of officers, v . 137. salaries and wages, v. 137. legal tender, v. 138. coinage of bullion, v . 138 .

William, to be discharged from judgment, vi. 97.
Millspaugh, Cornelius, allowance to, vi. 918 . Milly, an Indian Woman, pension to, vi . 928 . Milne, Alexander, to be paid for damage to
building, & c. , vi . 259.

charges to depositor, v. 138, 139. transfers and account of bullion , v . 139. allowance for waste, v. 139. deviation from true weight of coins, v.
139, 140. coins to be weighed , v . 140

116

GENERAL INDEX.

Mint, (continued .) annual trial, v. 140 , 141.
clippings, v. 140. account with coiner, v. 140.
allowance for waste , v. 140.
payments to depositors, v. 140, 141 . public moneys to be deposited in the
mint, v. 141 , 386.

Mississippi, Territory of, (continued .)
surveyor in, appointed, iii. 325, 375. public lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94 Missourias Indians,
treaty of September 26, 1825, with, vii. 277. July 15, 1830, with, vii. 328. September 21 , 1833, with, vii. 429. October 15, 1836, with, vii. 524.

purchase of copper bullion, v. 141 , 142.
coinage of copper, v. 141. exchange of copper coins, v. 141.
expense of transportation, v. 142. note of acts concerning, i . 246. branches of,

Missouri, State of, establishment of, iii. 545. admission into Union, iii. 645 ; Appendix, iii. 797.
compromise provision respecting slavery, iii. 548.
laws extended to, iii. 653.

act of 1835, ch. 39, establishing, iv. 774.
oath of officers, iv. 775 ; v. 652. general direction of, iv. 775.

west boundary extended to the Missouri River, v. 34 ; Appendix, v. 802.
survey of the south and south- west boundary, iv. 65.

laws regulating the rent extended to, iv. 775.
officers and salaries, iv. 774 ; v. 147. duties of melter and refiner transferred

boundary of, next to Arkansas, to be surveyed and marked, iii. 763.
payment of militia claim of, iv. 466. northern boundary of, v. 677.

from assayer to coiner at Dahlonega

public lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94.

and Charlotte, v . 602.

Missouri, Territory of,

Minturn and Champlin, claims against, to be

establishment and government of, ii. 743 ;

compromised, vi. 555.

iii. 328, 363.

Miquelon, commercial intercourse with, v. 748. Miranda, Pedro, duties to be refunded to, vi. 366. Mirboha, Moorish Ship, appropriation for prize
money to captors of, vi. 54. committee to wait on the president respect-

additional judge in, iii. 95. Missouri, claimants of land in, allowed further
time to institute proceedings, vi. 355. Volunteers, claims of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 875.

ing an error in the bill respecting, ii. 306. Mistakes in Entries of Land,

Misdemeanors. See particular heads.

provided for, iii. 526; iv. 31.

of members of congress in public contracts, ii. 484.

in sales of land as public, provided for, iv. 31 .

of messenger of electoral votes for presi- Mitchell, Alexander, Representatives of, released

dent and vice-president, i. 240.

from certain judgments, vi. 940.

Misprision,

Alzira, land title confirmed to, vi.

of treason, i. 112.

267.

of felony, i. 113.
Mississippi River, boatmen on, deemed seamen entitled to relief, ii. 192.
improvement of navigation of, iv. 32. to be a public highway, ii. 642, 703, 747 ;
iii. 349, 546.
Mississippi, State of, establishment of, iii. 348. laws extended to, iii. 413. admission into Union, iii. 472.
public lands in. See Lands, Public, p. 94. payment to volunteers of, in 1836, v. 150.
Mississippi Stock, loss of, provided for, iii. 479. Mississippi, Territory of,
amicable settlement of limits of, with

Edward, Mrs., payment to, iv. 791. Eli, pension to, vi. 577. John, allowance to, vi. 317.
appropriation for payment to, vi. 814.
Nathaniel, payment to, vi. 754, 863. to be paid for expenses of
a certain suit, vi. 843.
Richard, a judgment released to, vi. 162.
2 Samuel, land title confirmed to, vi. 67.
William, and another, patent fees to be refunded to, vi. 636.
Mitchigamia Indians, treaty of September 25, 1818, vii. 181.

Georgia, i . 549. establishment of, i. 549. government of, i. 549 ; ii. 69, 455 ; iii. 143. additional judiciary provisions, ii . 301 , 564. certain territory annexed to , ii. 305 , 734. additional compensation to secretary of, ii.
450.
delegate from, to congress, ii. 455. right of suffrage in Madison county, ii . 563,
564.
accounts of board of commissioners in, ii. 692.

Mix, Mervin P., claim of, for losses, to be settled, vi. 619.
Timothy, pension to, vi. 6.
increase of pension to, vi. 233. Mobile, City of,
preemption, grant of, to, iv. 243. sale of Fort Charlotte, in, iii. 465. grant of land to, iv. 66.
payment ofmilitia claims of, v. 435. Moers, Hazen, rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195. Moffitt, John, certificate of, to be valued and
paid, vi. 433.

consent of Georgia to division of, ii. 786. Moffett, Daniel, pension to, vi . 190 .

people of western part authorized to form Mohawk Indians, relinquishment of land by, to

a state government, iii. 348.

state of New York, vii. 61.

territory of Alabama formed from eastern Molaison, Pierre, land claim confirmed to, vi

part of, iii. 371

808.

GENERAL INDEX .

117

Molaro, Bartole, land claim confirmed to, vi. | Moorish Armed Ships, allowance to captors of,

500.

vi. 54.

Molero, Antony, Christoval, and Marguerite, Mophet, Robert, pension to, vi. 418.

land claim confirmed to, vi. 501.

Mora, Antonio, land claim confirmed to, v. 493.

Monday, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi . Moravian Lands, sale of, authorized, iv. 237.

140.

Moreau, Celestin , land claim confirmed to , vi . 295.

Monette, John W. , land patent to issue to, vi. Moreland, Elisha, authorized to enter land, vi.

802.

879.

Money deposited in Court, regulations of, iii. 127, 396. commission on , iii. 133.
Money, Public, to be deposited in banks, ii. 536. disbursement regulated, iii. 723. See Sub-Treasury, p. 164. deposit of part of, in mint, v. 141 .
Monot, Stephen, grant of land to, vi. 35. Monro, Jemima, allowance to, vi. 671. Monroe County, Indiana, authorized to

Moreno, Francisco and Fernando, land claim of, to be located, iv. 156.

Morfit, Henry, commutation of half-pay allowed to, vi. 719.

Morgan, Alexander, duties to be refunded, vi . 380.

G., claim of, to be settled,

and allowance to, vi. 713.

Asher, authorized to enter land, vi. 567.

Charles, land claim confirmed to, vi.

ex-

768.

change school lands, vi. 641 .

James, allowance to, for all demands,

vi. 354, 457.

Robert, pension to, vi. 918.

Montgomery, Alexander, land claims of representatives of, to be examined, vi . 217. -, grant of lands to the

heirs of, vi. 282.

vi. 433.

 land patent to issue to,

W., allowance to, for extraordinary expenses, vi . 922.
Colonel Gideon, pension of, v. 76 ; vi. 632.
Cyrus, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
General, medal of, v. 66, 174. James, increase of pension to, vi. 85.
M., allowance to, for services, vi. 879.

John, confirmation of land claim of, suspended, vi. 383.
J. M. C., overpayment to be repaid to, vi. 310.
W. and J., drawbacks allowed to , vi. 349. Montricul, Madame, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 187. Monuments. See Buoys and Beacons, p. 20.

W., allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Jane, arrearages of P. Woosely to be paid to , vi . 349.
John, increase of pension to, vi. 84. Simon, pension to, vi. 74.
William, amount of a bill to be paid to administrators of, vi. 224. ,

Moody, John, pension to, vi. 566. M. and Samuel, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 324.
Mooers, Benjamin, payment to, for hay, &c ., vi. 705.
Moor, William, authorized to exchange land certificates for scrip, vi. 788.
Moore, Alfred, and another, to be paid for work, vi. 296.

Treaty of Peace and Friendship with, of January, 1787, viii. 100.
Article 1. Emperor's consent to the treaty, viii. 100, 101.
Art. 2. Neither party shall take commissions from the enemy of the other, viii. 101 .
Art. 3. Regulations in case of capture, viii. 101.

Allen R., allowance to, for use of store, vi. 706.
Andrew, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 531 .
Daniel, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 665.
9 Ebenezer, land warrant to issue to, vi. 924 .
Edward, prize money to be paid to, vi. 452. Isidore, land title confirmed to, vi. 426. James, pension to, vi. 23.
-, seven years' half-pay allowed to children of, vi. 663.
" authorized to exchange land, vi . 762.
John, pension to, vi. 610.
Nancy, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 427.
Philip, payment by mistake to be repaid to representatives of, vi. 593. -, Quintin, pension to, vi. 91.
Sarah, pension to, vi . 842. Thomas, and others, allowance to, vi . 565.
P., allowance to, for expenses, vi. 684.

Art. 4. Signal or pass to be given to vessels, viii. 101.
Art. 5. How vessels shall be examined in
time ofwar, viii. 101 . Art. 6. Citizens of the United States cap-
tured, to be released, viii. 101. Art. 7. Vessels wanting supplies to be fur-
nished, viii. 101. Art. 8. Provision in case of misfortune,
viii. 101.
Art. 9. Regulation in case of shipwreck and being forced into port, viii. 101 , 102.
Art. 10. Vessels protected in certain cases, viii. 102.
Art. 11. Privileges of vessels in case of war, viii. 102.
Art. 12. Ships of war belonging to the United States not to be examined, viii. 102.
Art. 13. Ships of war to be saluted, viii. 102.
Art. 14. Commerce on the footing of the most favored nation, viii. 102.
Art. 15. Privileges of merchants, viii. 102 Art. 16. In case of war, prisoners not to be
enslaved, but exchanged, viii. 102.

118

GENERAL INDEX.

Morocco, (continued .)

Morocco, (continued .)

Art. 17. Merchants may buy and sell all

nine months allowed to settle affairs, and

goods except those prohibited to other

to remove, viii. 486.

Christian nations, viii. 103. Art. 18. Goods to be examined before sent

Art. 25. Treaty to remain in force for fifty years, viii. 487.

on board, and not after, unless in case of fraud, viii. 103.
Art. 19. Vessels not to be detained , viii. 103.
Art. 20. How disputes shall be settled, viii . 103 .
Art. 21. How crimes shall be punished, viii. 103.

Ratifications, viii. 487. Disposition of presents from the emperor
of, iv. 792 ; v. 409.
appropriation to procure recognition of treaty with, i. 214.
Morrell, Elisha, payment to, vi. 939. " Samuel, pension to, vi . 23. " increase of pension to, vi . 123.

Art. 22. How estates of deceased citizens Morril, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 68.

shall be disposed of, viii. 103.

Morris, Jonathan, pension to, vi . 123.

Art. 23. Consuls and their privileges, viii.

Richard G., amount of certificates al-

103 .

lowed to, vi. 486.

Art. 24. Regulations in case of war, viii. 104 .

Robert, allowance to, vi. 287. Zadoc, pension to, vi. 417.

Art. 25. This treaty to be in force for fifty | Morrissett, William, penalties remitted to, vi.

years, viii. 104.

157.

Treaty with Morocco, September 16, 1836, Morrison, George W. , pension to, vi. 417.

viii. 484.

-, James, credits to be allowed to, and

Article 1. Mutual agreement between the

balance paid, vi. 283.

parties to the treaty, viii . 484.

allowance to, vi . 288.

Art. 2. Neither party to take commissions from an enemy, viii. 484.
Art. 3. Persons, & c ., of one party cap-
tured in an enemy's vessel to be released, viii. 484.
Art. 4. Vessels to have passports , viii. 484.
Art. 5. Visits of vessels at sea, viii. 484. Art. 6. American citizens and effects to be

, executor of, released as surety of J. Crockett, vi. 350.
-, payment to be made to representatives of, vi. 419.
representative of, suit against, to be settled, vi . 560.
John, grant of land to, ii. 712. Robert, land patents to issue to, vi. 614.

restored, viii . 484.

-, William, claim of, to be settled and

Art. 7. Vessels in port to be supplied with provisions, & c. , viii . 485.
Art. 8. No duty on vessels of the United States putting in for repair, viii. 485.
Art. 9. Stranded vessels to be protected , viii. 485.
Art. 10. Vessels engaged within gunshot

paid, vi . 361 . to be paid for supplies, vi.
442 .
Morrow, James, and another, allowance to, for a judgment, vi. 837.
Morse, Andrew, Jr. , fog bell of, to be tested, v. 292. Elijah, pension to, vi. 75.

offorts to be protected, viii. 485. Art. 11. Enemy's vessels not allowed to
follow for twenty-four hours , viii. 485. Art. 12. Ships of war not to be examined
in port, viii. 485. Art. 13. Salutes to be returned , viii. 485.

Josiah, pension to, vi. 417. Noble, pension to, vi. 177.
Professor. See Magnetic Telegraph, p. 108.
Morton, John H., sureties of, released, vi. 596. Thomas, pension to, vi. 608.

Art. 14. American commerce on the most Moseley, William, claim of, to be settled and

favored footing, viii. 485.

paid, vi. 172.

Art. 15. Employment of interpreters, &c., viii. 485.
Art. 16. Exchange of prisoners in case of war, viii. 485.
Art. 17. No compulsion in buying or selling goods, viii . 486.

Mosely, Catharine, pension to, vi. 724. Samuel, allowance to, for damages, vi.
146.
Moss, Daniel, military land warrant granted to, vi. 230. -, Joseph, pension to, vi. 23.

Art. 18. No examination ofgoods on board, except where contraband is proved, viii. 486 .
Art. 19. No detention of vessels , viii. 486. Art. 20. Disputes between Americans,
&c., to be decided by the consul , & c . Assistance to be rendered to the consul, viii. 486.
Art. 21. Killing, &c., punishable by the law of the country, viii. 486.
Art. 22. Persons dying intestate, care of their effects to be taken, viii . 486.
Art. 23. Residence of the consul to be

Most Favored Nation Clause, insertion of, in treaties with the following powers : Algiers, viii . 224, 225, 245. Austria, viii. 400. Belgium, viii. 610. Brazil, viii. 391, 392. Central America, viii. 322, 334. Chile , viii. 434. China, viii. 592. Ecuador, viii. 534, 548. France, viii . 14, 114 , 180 , 204. Great Britain, viii. 124, 228.

where he thinks proper, and to be protected, viii. 486.

Hanseatic Republics , viii. 370. Mexico, viii. 410.

Art. 24. No appeal to arms until refusal of friendly arrangement. In case of war,

Morocco, viii. 102. Muscat, viii . 458 .

GENERAL INDEX.

119

Most Favored Nation Clause, (continued .) Netherlands, viii . 34. Ottoman Porte, viii. 408. Peru-Bolivia, viii . 488.

Muscat, (continued .) Article 1. Perpetual peace to exist, viii. 458.
Art. 2. Trade with, viii . 458.

Portugal, viii. 564, 566. Prussia, viii. 84, 98, 162, 176, 380, 382. Russia, viii. 306, 444, 450. Sardinia, viii . 516.

Art. 3. Duties on goods, viii. 458. Art. 4. " Most favored nation " clauses,
viii. 458, 459. Art. 5. Provision for the case of ship-

Siam , viii. 455. Sweden, viii. 62, 232. Tripoli and Tunis, viii . 214 , 300. Venezuela, viii. 466.

wrecks, viii. 458. Art. 6. Taxes on American merchants,
viii. 458.
Art. 7. Persons and property to be

Mott, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 417. Josiah,

restored from pirates, viii. 459. Art. 8. Consuls , viii. 459.

Motte, Charles, claim for seven years ' half- pay

Ratifications, viii. 459.

of, to be adjusted , vi. 6.

Muse, Lawrence. See W. B. Matthews, p. 111 .

Mount Zion Congregation, release of land to, vi . Mussey, Samuel, and another, authorized to en-

395.

ter land, vi. 776.

Mouton, Jean, land claim confirmed, v. 493.

Mute, Standing, i. 119 ; iv. 118.

Mowry, Jabez, sureties of, to be indemnified, vi . | Mutilation, i . 115.

175.

Mutiny,

Moxley, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 85. Muir, Jane, allowance to, for damages, vi. 478. Mullany, Colonel James R., accounts of, to be
settled, vi. 345.

in army, ii . 360. in navy, i. 711 , 713 ; ii. 48. in merchant vessels, iv. 775. attempt to excite, iv. 776.

Mulligan, Patrick, pension to, vi . 364.

Mutual Insurance Company, of Virginia, to have

Mullings, James, pension to, vi. 645.

the same rights, &c. , in District of Colum-

John, land title confirmed to , vi . 908.

bia as in Virginia, ii. 227.

Mullowny, John, allowances to be made in set- Myers, Hans , allowed to enter certain land, v.

tling account of, vi. 604.

715 .

Munday, William, increase of pension to, vi.

John, pension to, vi. 189.

161 .

Peter A., pension to, vi. 805.

Munitions of War, embezzlement, & c., of, i .

William, surety of, released, vi. 376.

116 ; v. 517.

Myott, Catharine, land reserved to, vi. 689.

Munn, James, pension to, vi . 91.

-, Justus, pension to, vi. 25. Munroe, Elizabeth, authorized to exchange land ,
vi. 882.
Munsee Indians,

Nagle, RPihcihlairpd, ,

N. pension to, vi. 417.

treaty of July 4, 1805, with , vii. 87.

Naismith, Alexander, pension to, vi. 153.

treaty of September 3, 1839, with , vii . 580 . Names,

relinquishment of land by, to New York, vii. 550.
Munsell, Elisha, pension to, vi . 24.

of public ships, iii. 538. of ships to be painted on stern, i . 288. of coasters, i. 309.

Murch, Hiram, moiety of a fine to be refunded Nance, Eaton, patent to, made valid , vi. 917.

to, vi. 929.

Richard, mistake in a land patent to, to

Murder, Crime of,

be corrected, vi. 568.

in forts, & c., i . 113. on high seas, & c ., i . 113, 114 ; iv. 115. misprision of, i. 113. by and upon Indians, i. 470 ; ii . 142.

Nantucket, special exemption of inhabitants of, from embargo, iii. 94.
Napier, Rapelye, and Bennett, duties to be repaid to, vi. 295.

provision respecting, in navy rules and articles, i. 711 ; ii. 48.
Murphy, Benjamin, to be paid for corn, vi. 930. Greenbury H., allowance to, for a judg-
ment against, vi. 278. --, Sarah, to be paid for services , vi. 706. Murray, Alexander, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 56 .

Nash, Francis, half-pay to be paid to representative of, vi. 586.
-- -, Ira, to be paid for losses by Indians, vi 659.
Natchez, grant to town of, ii. 401 , 480 , 481 . Natural History, disposition of objects brought
home by the "exploring expedition ," v. 406, 534.

Henry, representative of, to be paid, vi. National Institute, incorporated, vi . 845.

117.

Naturalization, Regulations of,

John, to be paid for lost certificates, vi. 117.

obsolete acts, i . 103, 414 , 566. power of congress over, i. 13.

R., debentures to be paid to, vi. 187 .
Robert, authorized to exchange land, vi. 752 .
Murrey, Anthony, pension to, vi. 527. Muscat,
disposition of presents from the Imaum of,

laws respecting, to be printed, iii. 341.
general act of 1802, ch. 28, concerning, ii. 153.
provisi us for persons residing here before a certain time, ii. 154, 292 ; iv. 310.
register of persons arriving, ii . 154 ; iii. 258 .

v. 409, 730.

what courts may naturalize aliens, ii. 155

treaty of September 21, 1833, with, viii. 458.

provision as to children , ii . 155. proscribed persons, ii. 155.

120

GENERAL INDEX .

Naturalization, Regulations of, (continued.) repeal of former acts, ii. 155.
provision where person dies before completing his naturalization, ii. 293.
applicant must not within five years have been out of the United States , ii. 811.
provision as to alien enemies during war of 1812, iii. 53, 259.
made before clerks, to be sufficient, iv. 69. declaration of intention to become a citizen,
iv. 69.
provision for persons residing in United States three years before the majority, iv. 69.
repeal of acts of 1802, ch. 28, § 2, and 1816, ch. 32, § 1 , iv. 310.
Naudi, Xaverio, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 162.

Navigation of Rivers, (continued.) Kentucky, v. 270. Maine, iv. 176, 275, 346, 395, 551, 702.
Massachusetts, iv. 176, 289, 346, 395, 703.
Michigan, iv. 645.
New Hampshire, iv. 289, 346 ; v. 187. New York, iv. 289, 347, 395, 459, 552,
648, 703, 724, 754 ; v. 68, 69, 188, 189, 268, 269. North Carolina, iv. 347, 395, 552, 648,
703, 754 ; v. 68, 190, 269, 270. Ohio, iv. 176, 275, 394, 459, 553, 703 ;
v. 68, 188, 268, 270. Pennsylvania, iv. 176. Tennessee, iv. 553, 704 ; v. 68, 190,
270.

Naval Constructors. See Navy, p. 120 . required to do duty at any station, v. 794.
Naval Monument, appropriation for, iv. 580. Naval Officer of Customs, appointment and
duties, i. 642, 677 ; iii. 582. See Customs,
Officers of the, p. 44. Naval Timber. See Navy Timber, p. 122.
Navigable Rivers, as to what are to be deemed highways. See Highways, p. 82.
Navigation, seamen employed on board of public or private ships of United States to be natives or citizens, ii. 809 lists of crew on board to be approved by collector, ii. 809. when naturalized persons are employed, certificate to be shown, ii. 809.
seamen, foreign, not to be taken as passengers in foreign ports, without permission, ii. 810.
foreign consuls may object to employment . of foreign seamen, ii . 810.
forfeiture for illegal employment ofseamen in public ships, ii. 810. in private ships, ii. 810.
exceptions to prohibition , ii . 810. limitation of suits for forfeitures , ii. 811.

Virginia, iv. 347. Wisconsin, v. 328, 663.
act for the improvement of the following rivers, Arkansas, iv. 553, 754 ; v. 190, 270, 510, 661 . Ohio, iv. 32, 216, 241 , 289, 363, 395, 462, 552, 648, 754 ; v. 68, 69, 190, 270, 510, 661 .
Mississippi, iv. 32, 216, 289, 348, 363, 395, 462, 552, 648, 754 ; v. 68, 69, 190, 270, 510, 661.
Missouri, iv. 552, 648, 754 ; v. 190, 510, 661.
Red River, iv. 289, 460, 551 , 703, 754 :
v. 68, 190, 228. Pascagoula, iv. 289, 551. Potomac, iv. 646. Wabash, iv. 289. Navy, power of congress to provide and maintain, i. 14.
general acts regulating, i. 350, 453, 523, 576, 749 ; ii . 110, 390, 443, 514, 553, 789, 821 ; iii. 136.
acts respecting building vessels for, i. 350, 453, 523, 552, 575, 608, 621 ; ii. 206, 292,

crews of fishing vessels not entitled to bounty, unless three fourths citizens, iii. 351.
importations prohibited , except in American ships, or ships of country of production, iii. 351.

514, 699, 789, 821 ; iii . 144, 321 , 596, 720 ; iv. 131 , 168, 436, 724 ; v. 157.
three steamships to be built, v. 364 400.
steamer on plan of R. L. Stevens,  472.

carrying and coasting trade prohibited to foreign ships, iii. 351.
fifty cents tonnage duty on ships not navigated by a crew three fourths citizens, in coasting trade, iii. 351. two thirds in foreign trade, iii. 352.
regulations as to the carriage of passengers, iii. 488.
Navigation, Domestic and Foreign, annual accounts of, iii. 541 .
Navigation of Rivers, acts respecting improvement of, in the following states, Alabama, iv. 290, 397, 441 , 604, 663 ; v. 57, 458, 606. Arkansas, iv. 645 ; v. 190 . Connecticut, iii. 635 ; iv. 176, 552 ; v. 189, 269. Florida, iv. 289, 395, 460 , 552, 645, 649, 754 ; v. 68, 190, 270, 331 , 670 . Georgia, iv. 553, 703, 754 ; v. 270. Louisiana, iv . 348.

See names of particular vessels. vessels for the lakes, i. 564 ; ii. 821 ; iii.
139 ; v. 460.
sale of, iii. 217 ; iv. 131 . unexpended balances of appropriations may
be applied to repairing, &c., v. 400, 401 .
pay of officers, general acts, i . 351, 524 ; iii. 136 ; iv. 755, 756, 757. captains, i. 618. lieutenants, i. 618 ; iv. 304. midshipmen, v. 794. surgeons, iv. 330. schoolmasters, ii. 789. commandants, i . 618. pursers, v. 535. forward warrant officers, v. 536.
when on extra duty , iii . 136, 345. when on duty of a higher grade, v
536, 703, 729.
engineers, & c., in steam ships,  577.

GENERAL INDEX .

121

Navy, (continued . ) pay of officers to be in full for all charges, iv. 757. except travelling expenses, iv. 757. pay of seamen, i. 351, 524 ; iii. 136.
when on extra duty, iii. 136, 345. term of enlistment of seamen, i. 525 ; ii.
514 ; iii. 606.
detention beyond, i. 552 ; v. 153, 795. peace establishment of, ii. 110, 390, 443,
553.
number of seamen, i . 350, 524, 552, 576, 621 ; ii. 110, 390, 443, 514 , 699, 789 ; v. 699.
rations in navy, i. 350, 524, 618 ; ii. 110 ; v. 546. allowance in lieu of spirits, v. 547.
acts for gradual increase and improvement of, iii. 226, 321 , 642 ; iv. 168, 242, 646 ; v. 158, 234, 401.
articles bought for one purpose may be used for others, v. 401.
sale of old vessels authorized, ii . 402.
employment of, to suppress insurrections, ii. 443.
to suppress piracies, iii. 510, 600, 720, 721, 789.
to enforce embargoes, ii . 510, 708 ; iii. 92.
to enforce neutrality laws, iii. 449 ; v . 214.
to preserve naval timber in Florida, iii. 651 .
to suppress slave trade, ii. 71 ; iii. 532. to cruise on the coast, ii. 514, 553 ; v.
438.
in carrying on the coast survey, ii. 414 ; iii. 425 ; v. 691.
appointment of officers, iii. 125 ; v. 500. rules and articles for government of,
obsolete, i. 709. in force, ii. 45. courts-martial in, ii. 50. revision of, iv. 516 ; v. 584.
compensation of revision, iv. 615. clerk of revision , v. 584.
printing of, v. 617. See Rules and Articles, p. 150. marine corps in. See Marine Corps, p. 109. establishment and regulation of, i . 594,
729 ; ii. 39, 544 ; iii . 124 , 376 ; iv. 430, 580, 646, 712, 718 ; v. 795. peace establishment of marine corps, iii. 376.
organization of medical department, iv. 313, 330.
distribution of prizes in cases of capture, i. 715, 716 ; ii. 52.
bounty on captures, i. 716. salvage, rates of, in, i. 716 ; ii . 16. ships in, how named, iii. 538. merchandise prohibited in public ships, ii .
48 .
foreign seamen not to be employed in, ii . 810.
register of officers, &c., to be printed, iii. 342.
enlistment of boys, i. 576 ; v. 153, 725, 795. title of certain officers in the navy changed ,
v. 163. president may cause public vessels to cruise
on the coast, in order to relieve vessels in distress, v. 208. VOL. VIII. 16

Navy, (continued .) three steam vessels to be built, v. 364, 400. home squadron authorized, v . 438. American hemp for, v. 467, 617, 703. steamer to be built on plan of R. L. Stevens, v. 472.
on plan of Lieutenant Hunter, v. 420, 669 .
professors ofmathematics in, where to mess, v. 576. rations of, v. 576.
navy department, reorganization of, v. 579. bureaus in, v. 579.
midshipmen, appointment of, regulated, v. 794.
furloughs, iv. 756 ; v. 794. appointment of engineers for steamships, v .
577, 794.
depots for coal, fuel, &c . , for steamships, v. 577.
purchase of iron tanks for, iv. 571 , 752. depot of charts, v. 576. for acts respecting timber for the navy,
see Navy Timber, p. 122. provision respecting gunboats, galleys,
flotilla service, & c. , see those titles. board of commissioners of the navy, iii.
202, 231. abolished, v. 579.
commanding officer, when there is no consul, to act as such, v. 725.
vessels by whom to be commanded, i. 618 ; ii. 390.
officers of, to take charge of stores at foreign ports, v. 700.
grade of master's mates abolished, v. 699. definition of " petty officers," ii. 49. preservation of flags, &c ., captured by, iii.
133 .
provisions respecting coöperations with land forces, iii. 151 .
list of vessels to be inserted in Biennial
Register, iii. 342. purchase of vessels captured on the lakes,
iii. 130, 224, 229. force to be kept on coast of Africa, viii.
576.
improvements in vessels, ordnance, &c . , to be tested, v. 461 , 703.
no person to receive or pay money for naval purposes at foreign ports unless duly appointed, v. 703.
appropriations for, vol. i. in 1794, 376, 394 ; in 1795, 439, 453 ; in 1797, 508, 535 ; in 1798, 547, 552, 564, 608 ; in 1799, 621 , 622, 709, 721 . vol. ii. in 1800, 79 ; in 1801 , 122, 178 ; in 1803, 199, 206, 208 ; in 1804, 249, 292 ; in 1805, 310, 330, 348 ; in 1806, 349, 398 ; in 1807, 411 , 450 ; in 1808, 466 ; in 1809, 514, 545 ; in 1810,562, 616 ; in 1812, 684, 776 ; in 1813, 789, 791 , 821 . vol. iii. in 1814, 94 , 104, 105, 139, 144 ; in 1815 , 223 ; in 1816, 299 ; in 1817, 382 ; in 1818 , 411 ; in 1819, 483 ; in 1820, 540 , 553, 596 ; in 1821 , 634 ; in 1822, 650, 676 ; in 1823, 763 . vol. iv. in 1824, 20 ; in 1825, 83 ; in 1826, 140, 152, 170 ; in 1827, 206 ; in 1828, 254, 304, 311 , 312 ; in 1829, 353, 370 ; in 1830 , 371 , 375, 428 ; in

122 GENER IN A D L EX .

Navy, (continued .) 1831 , 460 ; in 1832, 497, 493, 569, 570, 571 ; in 1833, 614 ; in 1834 , 670 ; in 1835, 750.
vol. v. in 1836, 27 ; in 1837, 155 ; in 1838, 232 ; in 1839, 362 ; in 1840, 398 ; in 1841 , 419 , 438, 461 ; in 1842, 500, 519 ; in 1843, 615 ; in 1844 , 651, 656, 669, 699 ; in 1845, 790.
transfer of appropriations in, authorized, ii. 535 ; iii. 390, 563 ; iv. 21 , 558, 742 ; v. 651 . forbidden, v. 581.
no money to be paid to any one in arrears to the United States, special acts, iii. 677, 764 ; iv. 21 , 83, 141 ; general provision , iv. 246.
purchase of supplies for. See Purchase, p. 144 .
Navy Agents, appointment and duties of, ii. 536 ; iii. 582 ; v. 703.
Navy Board of Commissioners, establishment and duties, iii. 202, 231 . abolished, v. 579.
Navy Department, established in 1798, i . 553. organization of, i. 553.
clerks in, i. 554 ; v. 579, 580. See Clerk, p. 31.
accountant of, i. 610. office abolished , iii . 366.
money warrants from, i. 610 ; ii. 535 ; iii. 367, 689.
board of commissioners established in, iii. 202, 231 ; abolished , v. 579.
accounts of, to be settled by treasury department, iii. 366.
transfer of appropriations, ii . 535 ; iii. 390, 568 .
unexpended balances, disposition of, iii. 567, 689 ; v. 400, 401 .
See Secretary of the Navy, p. 154. reorganization of, in 1842, v. 579.
bureaus in, v. 579, 580. clerks, v. 579, 580. messenger, v. 580. officers of navy to receive appoint-
ments of clerks , v. 581 . reports from , to congress. See Reports,
p. 146. Navy Hospital Money,
regulations of, i . 729 ; iv. 304, 360 ; v. 602 . See Hospitals, p. 84.
Navy Hospitals, establishment of. See Hospitals, p. 84.
Navy, Moses, payment to be made to, vi . 184. Nary Pension Fund. See Pensions, p. 130.
establishment and regulation of, i. 716 ; ii. 53, 293, 790 ; iii . 287 ; iv. 714 ; v. 180, 519.
commissioners of, i. 716 ; ii . 53, 293. clerks and officers of courts to account for
proceeds of prize, iii. 287. Navy, Pursers in. See Pursers, p. 144.
to give bonds, ii . 536 ; iii . 350 ; v. 535. pay of, v. 535, 795. how appointed , ii. 699. sailing master to act as, (obsolete, ) ii. 110. Navy, Timber for the, purchase of, i. 622 ; ii. 699 ; iii. 226 ; iv.
242, 724. reservations of live oak for, iii. 347, 607 ;
v. 611.
act for preservation of live oak, iii. 651 .

Navy, Timberfor the, (continued .) purchase of lands capable of producing live oak, i. 622 ; ii. 699 ; iv. 256. punishment for cutting, &c. , live oak, iv. 472.
Navy- Yards, at Charlestown, ii. 199 ; iv. 21 , 84, 140, 498, 614, 670, 724, 725, 750 ; v. 27, 155, 232, 329, 399, 419, 500, 615, 699, 701, 791 , 792. at Brooklyn, ii. 330 ; iv. 84 , 140, 498, 614, 652, 670, 671 , 725, 750 ; v. 27, 156, 232, 399, 419, 500, 615, 699, 701 , 791 , 792. at Philadelphia, iv. 84 , 140 , 245, 498, 514, 614, 670, 750 ; v. 27, 156, 233, 399, 419, 501 , 616, 700, 701 , 791 , 792. at Pensacola, iv. 48, 127, 256, 498, 614, 670, 725, 750 ; v. 29, 156 , 233, 399, 419, 501 , 616, 700, 701 , 702, 791 , 792. at Washington, ii. 297 ; iii . 764 ; iv. 84, 140, 170 , 498, 569, 614, 670 , 750 ; v. 27, 156, 233, 399, 419, 501 , 616 , 700, 701, 702, 791 , 792. at Portsmouth, iv. 84, 140 , 498, 614, 670, 750 ; v. 27, 155, 232, 399, 419, 500, 615. at Gosport, iv. 140 , 514 , 670, 725, 750 ; v. 28, 156, 157, 233, 399, 419, 501 , 616, 700, 701 , 791 , 792. at New Orleans, iii. 465. at Norfolk, iv. 84, 498, 514 , 614. at Kittery, v. 699, 701, 790. at Memphis, v. 626, 791 , 796. crimes within, i . 113, 115 , 116 ; iv. 115. dry docks in. See Dry Docks, p. 54. before purchasing sites for, the attorneygeneral to examine titles, v. 468. cession ofjurisdiction over sites, to be requested from the states, v. 463 . no money to be expended on, until jurisdiction is ceded, v. 468. surveys of harbors, &c., to ascertain fit
ness for, iv. 48, 140 ; v. 157, 401 . Naylor, John C. , to be paid for services as clerk,
vi. 583.
Needs, James, pension to, vi. 417. Ne Excut, writ of, i. 334, 335. Neely, Samuel, pension to, vi . 938. Neigaman, John, preemption right allowed to,
iv. 57.
Neil, Robert, pension to, vi. 140. Neilson, George, Heirs of, authorized to enter
land, vi. 902.
Neley, William, increase of pension to, vi . 68. Nelson, William , increase of pension to, vi. 77.
-, prize money to be paid to, vi. 517.
Neptune and Fox, Vessels, allowance to owners and crews of, vi. 669.
Nesbit, Samuel, pension to, vi. 74. -, William, allowance to, vi. 918.
Netherlands, discriminating duties repealed as to, iii. 484 , 510 ; iv. 2. Treaty with, of October 8, 1782, viii. 32. Article 1. Peace and friendship between the two nations, viii. 32. Art. 2. Subjects ofthe Netherlands to have the same privileges in the United States as the most favored nations , viii. 32, 34. Art. 3. Citizens of the United States to
have the same privileges in the United Netherlands as the most favored nations, viii . 34.

GENERAL INDEX .

123

Netherlands, (continued.)

Netherlands, (continued . )

Art. 4. Liberty of conscience secured to

shall be recaptured, how they shall be

the citizens of each party in each other's dominions, viii. 34.

restored, viii. 50. Art. 2. When they shall belong to the re-

Art. 5. Both parties to protect vessels of

captor, viii . 50.

the other in their dominions, to restore

Art. 3. When recaptured by vessels of

then when captured, and to convoy them in certain cases, viii. 34.

war, they shall be restored, viii. 52. Art. 4. Restitution to be made in reason-

Art. 6. Citizens of either party may dis-

able time, viii . 52.

pose oftheir estates by will or otherwise. Regulations, viii. 36.

Art. 5. Vessels of war and privateers to be admitted with their prizes into the ports

Art. 7. Subjects of either party may em-
ploy such advocates as they think proper, viii. 36.

ofboth nations, viii. 52.
Art. 6. Each nation may make regulations, viii. 52.

Art. 8. Vessels not to be detained , viii. 36. Art. 9. Privileges of citizens in transact-

Treaty with, January 19, 1839, viii. 524. Article 1. Duties on goods imported or ex-

ing business, viii. 38.

ported. Bounties granted by either par-

Art. 10. Merchant ships, if required, shall

ty to its own vessels, to be granted to

exhibit sea-letters, &c ; and, if no con-

vessels of the other, viii. 524.

traband goods on board, shall pass, viii. 38 .

Art. 2. Tonnage duties, & c., viii. 524. Art. 3. Privileges of consuls, viii. 524.

Art. 11. Mode of proceeding when contra-

Art. 4. What shall be considered national

band goods are on board, viii. 38. Art. 12. Goods found in an enemy's ship
liable to confiscation , unless put on board before the declaration of war, or within

vessels, viii. 526. Art. 5. Assistance to shipwrecked vessels,
viii. 526. Art. 6. This treaty to continue ten years,

six months, viii. 40.

and further until twelve months' notice

Art. 13. Vessels of war or privateers to do
no injury to either party. If they do, reparation to be made, viii. 40.

ofa desire to terminate it, viii. 526. Art. 7. Ratifications to be exchanged in
six months, viii . 526.

Art. 14. Captains of privateers to give se- Neutrality,

curity, viii . 40.

obsolete acts to enforce and regulate, i .

Art. 15. Goods rescued from pirates to be

381 , 497, 520 ; ii . 54 ; iii. 370.

restored, viii. 40.

acts in force , iii . 447 ; v. 212.

Art. 16. In case of shipwreck, relief to be | Nevius, Peter, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

afforded, viii. 42.

New Castle and Frenchtown Railroad Company,

Art. 17. Vessels driven in by stress of

duties to be refunded to , vi. 740.

weather to be protected, viii. 42. Art. 18. In case of war, nine months to be
allowed to citizens residing in the other's dominions to sell and transport their effects, viii. 42.

New Granada, Postal Convention with, March 6, 1844, viii. 584. Article 1. Transmission of the United States' mail across the Isthmus of Pana.

Art. 19. Citizens of neither party to take

ma, viii. 584.

commissions or letters of marque from

Art. 2. Postage on letters, &c. , that do not

powers at war with the other, viii. 44.

cross the isthmus, viii. 584.

Art. 20. Vessels coming on the coast, or

Art. 3. Disposition of the mail after its

entering the ports of either party, how to be treated, viii . 44.

arrival in Panama, viii. 584. Art. 4. Transmission of the mail to Cha-

Art. 21. Consuls to be allowed in the ports of either party, viii . 44.

gres or Porto Bello from Panama, viii. 584 .

Art. 22. This treaty not to derogate from

Art. 5. Payment for transmission of the

any treaty with France, viii. 44. Art. 23. The United Netherlands to aid

mail, viii. 586. Art. 6. Packets to carry letters and papers

the United States in forming treaties with the Barbary powers, viii . 44. Art. 24. What goods shall be deemed contraband, viii. 46.

between the two countries without compensation, viii . 586. Art. 7. United States' packets to carry letters, &c., from one port of New Granada

Art. 25. Regulations respecting passports, viii. 46.

to another without charge, viii . 586. Art. 8. Duties on coals used for United

Art. 26. How ships are to be treated when

States' steamers, viii. 586.

met by ships of war or privateers , viii. 48 .

Art. 9. Advantages arising from this convention to be considered as compensation

Art. 27. Merchants and commanders of

for the obligations, viii. 586.

vessels may take into their service seamen and others belonging to either na-

Art. 10. Convention to go into effect when the ratifications are known to have been

tion, viii. 48. Art. 28. The affair of the refraction to be

made , viii. 586. Art. 11. Duration of the convention, viii.

regulated, in all equity and justice, by

586 .

magistrates, viii. 48.

New Jersey, compact between New York and

Art. 29. Ratification , viii. 48. Convention with, concerning vesse's recap-

New Jersey, respecting boundaries, assented to, iv. 708.

tured, October 8, 1782, viii. 50.

New Jersey Steamboat, to be licensed , vi. 799.

Article 1. When vessels of either nation New Madrid, Missouri Territory, relief of in

124

GENERAL INDEX.

habitants of, iii . 211 , 417, 668 ; iv. 219, 435 ; | Nibert, Joseph, land to be patented to, vi. 709.

v. 603.

Nicholas, Edward, arrears of pension to be paid

New Orleans,

to, vi. 632.

grants and confirmations of land to, ii . 440, 621 , 665, 700 ; iii. 729.
disposition of certain lots of land in, iii. 465, 661 ; iv. 167.
military barracks at , iv. 746.

Nichols, Amos, to be paid for services as clerk , vi. 286.
John, allowance to, vi. 239. Thomas, authorized to exchange land certificate for scrip , vi. 788.

resolution respecting patriotism of inhabit- Nicholls, Caleb, claim of, to be settled and paid,

ants of, iii. 248.

vi. 194.

salt may be unladen on bank of the river Nicholson, John, claim of, to be paid, vi . 466.

opposite to, v. 662.

Nicks, John, payment to, vi. 465.

additional inspectors at, v. 801 .

Nielson, Joseph, pension to, vi. 417.

New Orleans and Carrolton Railroad Company, Nieves, Antonio and Joseph, land claims con-

right of way over public lands, granted to,

firmed to, vi. 500.

v. 197.

Niger, Ship, payment to master and crew of, i.

New Orleans and Nashville Railroad Company,

724.

right of way over public lands granted to, Niles, Nathaniel, payment to, iv. 768 , 739 ; vi.

v. 65.

814.

New Orleans Navigation Company, grant of land to, vi. 144. confirmation of land title to, vi. 161.
New York, City of, exchange of a piece of land in, iii. 116.

Nimblett, Joseph, pension to, vi. 898. Nimmo, Henry, certain duties refunded to, vi.
149.
William T., to be paid for house destroyed, vi. 300.

reconveyance of North Battery to, iv. 401 ; Nippes, Ann M., and others, claim of, to be set-

vi. 263.

tled, vi. 345.

remission of duties on goods destroyed by Nissen, Nicholas C. , thanks of congress for his

fire in, v. 284.

attentions to American prisoners at Tripoli,

relief of sufferers by fire in , v. 6, 8.

ii. 410.

New York, Frigate, building of, ii. 699.

Nithercut, William, pension to be paid to wid-

New York and Haerlem Railroad Company,

ow of, vi. 365.

duties to be refunded to, vi. 739.

Nix, George, authorized to exchange land , vi.

New York Harbor, appropriation for engraving

832.

chart of, v. 347. New York Indians,
treaty of January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550. treaty of February 13, 1838, with, vii. 561.

Nixon, John, pension to, vi . 24.
Nobility, titles of, not to be granted by the United States, or accepted by their officers, i. 15 .

New York, State of, payment of interest to, iv. 192. assent of congress to acts of, iv. 708. payment of militia claim of, v. 268. house of refuge in, proceedings against,

Noble, Charles, right of preemption granted to, vi. 348.
9 James, claims of, to be settled, vi . 595. Noah, allowance to, for expenses, vi.
358.

for the recovery of a debt, to be suspend-

Seth, grant of land to, vi. 43.

ed, iv, 430.

Non-Importation Acts. See Foreign Intercourse,

Newall, Joseph S. , allowed to withdraw an entry, vi. 170.
Newbury, James, pension to, vi . 189. Newell, Samuel, pension to, vi . 112. Newingham, Henry, land warrant to issue to, vi.
914.
Newkerk, Jacob, pension to, vi. 3.

p. 65 ; and ii . 379, 411 , 469, 529 ; iii. 123. Non-Intercourse Acts. See Foreign Intercourse,
p. 65 ; and iii . 195 , 226. Norfolk, Sufferers by Fire in, time of payment
of bonds extended, ii. 272.
Norris, Samuel, confirmation of land claim of, suspended, vi. 382.

Newman, Erastus, allowed to enter certain land , Norristown and Valley Railroad, time of laying

v. 715.

certain rails extended, vi. 899.

Newman, Francis, accounts of, to be settled, vi . North, Hicks, payment to, vi. 185.

852.

and Vesey, duties refunded to, vi . 32.

John, land warrant to be issued to , vi. Northam, Timothy, pension to, vi. 24.

66.

North Carolina,

pension to, vi. 92.

laws of United States extended to, i. 99,

Henry, patent issued to, to be correct-

126.

ed, vi. 664. Newsom, Joshua, to be paid for horses, vi .
252 .
Newspapers, postage on, v. 733, 737. Newton, Francis, pension restored to, vi. 417.
" John, authorized to exchange land, vi. 748.
" Larkin, and others, grant of land to, in trust, vi. 567.
Thomas W., allowance to, for horses

copies of the laws to, ii. 87. coast of, to be surveyed, ii. 375: payment of militia claim of, v. 151. cession of lands accepted, i . 106.
assent of congress to act of, iii . 417 ; iv. 573.
duties on goods from, before admission to Union, i. 48, 49.
payment of revolutionary soldiers of, i. 187 .

lost, vi. 438. New Trials, granting of, i. 83.

payment to, of expense of extinguishing Indian title, iv. 268.

Nexsen, William, to be discharged from prison, North- Eastern Boundary, agents to be appointed

vi. 119

to designate, iv. 262.

GENERAL INDEX.

125

North-Western Territory,

Oaths, (continued . )

ordinance of 1789 for the government of, i.

by whom administered, i. 23.

51, note.

to members of congress, i. 23.

acts for the government of, i. 50 , 285 ; ii. 58, 173.
limitation act of, disapproved, i. 286. settlement of accounts of officers of, in 1802
and 1803 , ii . 350. provisions respecting public lands in. See

by courts and judges, i. 23. by clerks of courts, i. 278. by pension agents, v. 368. by registers and receivers of land of
fices, v. 384. by auditor of post-office, v. 84.

Lands, Public, p. 94.

by officers of customs, i. 664.

Norton, Elnathan , pension to, vi. 25.

bychairman of committees of congress,

John, pension to, vi. 154. -, Stephen, and others, allowance to, for services, vi. 541 . Norway,

i. 554 ; iii. 345. by auditors in departments, iii. 368. by commissioners to take affidavits,
&c. See Commissioners, p. 38.

discriminating duties repealed as to, iii. 510 ; iv. 206. Appendix, i. Proc. vi.
treaty of July 4, 1827, with, viii. 346.

persons scrupulous of taking oaths, under collection act of 1799, ch. 22, may affirm , i. 699.

Notaries, regulation of fees of, in the District of

false taking of, punished as perjury, i . 116,

Columbia, iii. 417.

117, 562, 695 ; iii . 771 ; iv. 118. See

Nourse, James, pension to, vi . 178.

Perjury, p. 131 .

Joseph, to pay expenses of, vi . 35. Nowell, James, pension to, vi. 177.

O'Bannon, Jennings, allowance to, for expenses of suit, vi. 240.

Samuel, pension to, vi. 460.

Presley N., allowance to, for a horse

Noyes, Ebenezer, duties to be repaid to, vi . 241.

lost, vi. 706.

Enoch J., and others, fishing bounty al-

Thomas, allowed to withdraw his en-

lowed to, vi. 808. Joseph, pension to, vi. 92.

try and locate elsewhere, vi. 104. Oblenis, Garret, pension to, vi. 33.

Nueva Granada, Brig, register allowed to, vi. 883.
Nunez, Widow, land claim confirmed to, vi. 501 .
Nute, Jotham, pension to, vi. 23. increase of pension to, vi. 114.

O'Brien, James, duties remitted to, vi. 30.

Richard, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 250.

267. Obstruction,

allowance to, for outfits, vi.

Nutting, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 68.

of marshal, &c. , serving precepts, i . 117.

See Process, p. 141 . of custom-house officers, i. 44, 316, 678 ;

O.

iii. 782 ; iv. 632.

of persons escaping from wrecks, iv. 116.

Oakes, Henry, released from judgments, vi. 560 .

of mail, iv. 104. See Post- Office, p. 137. of officers of internal revenue, i . 210 ; iii.

Oaths,

155, 190.

by whom to be taken,

O'Conner, John, land title confirmed to repre-

president and vice-president, senators

sentatives of, vi . 239.

and representatives, i. 16, 19, 23. Odam, Seybert, increase of pension to, vi. 102.

secretary of senate, i. 24. clerk of house, i . 24. members of state legislatures, i . 23.

Officers and Agents, register of, to be printed, vi. 181.
O'Fallon, John, and another. See Elias T.

judges of courts, i . 23, 76.

Langham, vi. 751.

other officers of United States, i . 23. Officers of the Customs. See Customs, Officers

clerks of courts, i . 23, 76.

ofthe, p. 44 .

marshals, i. 23, 87.

Officers of the United States,

district attorneys, i . 23, 92. attorney-general, i . 23, 93.

to be appointed by president, i. 17. term of office regulated, iii. 582, 697.

clerks of departments, i. 215. officers of customs, i. 641 , 642. members of courts-martial in army, ii
368.

general provision respecting oath of, i. 19, 23.
general provision respecting bonds of, iii . 582, 697, 723.

of courts-martial in navy, ii. 50.

certain, forbidden to trade, & c .

officers and soldiers in the army, i. 96,

officers of the customs, i. 337, 695.

121 , 432, 486, 605 ; ii. 136, 361 , 673, 796 .
by applicants for patents who reside abroad, v. 544.

persons in land office, v. 112. persons in treasury department, i. 67,
215, 281 , 419. members of congress, ii . 484, 604.

in mint, v. 652.

persons employed in collection of rev-

required under acts for collection of duties, to reports and manifests, i. 649. to entry, i. 656 ; iii . 730, 731, 733, 734 .

enue, i. 281, 380. officers of the commissariat, iii . 427. persons in post-offices, v. 86.

by appraisers of goods, i. 666 ; iii. 735. | O'Flyng, Edmund, land warrant granted to, vi.

on clearing, i. 698.

163 .

to obtain drawbacks, i . 691 .

"" Patrick and Abigail, land warrant

to obtain bounty on exportation of fish, i. 693.

granted to, and to receive half-pay for their sons, vi. 163.

126

GENERAL INDEX .

Ogallala Indians, treaty of July 5, 1825, with, | Onstine, Frederick, authorized to enter land, vi.

vii. 252.

385.

Ogden, Abraham, debentures to be paid to, vi . 187 .
9 Edmund, land patent to issue to, vi . 886. Francis B., letters patent granted to , vi.
614.
Stephen, pension to, vi. 67.

Onus Probandi, on seizures, when on claimant, i. 420, 678 ; iii. 242 .
on suits with Indians, iii . 683.
Opening, letters, iv. 109. See Post- Office, p 137.

Thomas L., to be paid for wood, vi. 327. | Opie, Le Roy, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 262.

O'Harra, James, Executors of, land claims con- | Oramos, Joseph, land claim confirmed to, vi.

firmed to, vi . 670.

499.

Ohio,

appropriation for, i . 501.

Oramus, Geronimo, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.

territory north-west of, establishment and government of, i. 50 , 285.
territory south of, establishment and government of, i. 123, 285. State of.
establishment of, ii. 173, 225. laws extended to , ii. 201.
district court in, ii . 201 , 202 ; v. 788. See District Courts, p. 50.
survey of boundaries of, ii. 741. assent of congress to act of, iv. 483. acts in relation to north boundary line of,
iv. 596, 628 ; v. 49, 56. western boundary of, ii. 59.
public lands in . See Lands, Public, p. 94. interest of United States in a certain road
ceded to, v. 296. payment to militia of, vi . 777. authorized to sell land at Scioto salt spring,
vi. 161.
grant of land in Upper Sandusky to commissioners of Wyandot county, vi. 936.

Orcutt, David, increase of pension to, vi . 93. Ord, James, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi.
591 .
Ordinance, of 1787, for government of territories, i. 51, note.
Ordnance Department, established, ii. 732 ; repealed, iii. 205. additional deputy commissaries , iii. 75. employment ofwheelwrights, laborers, &c., in, ii. 732 ; iii. 115. reorganization of, in 1815, iii . 203. continued in force, iii. 299. merged in artillery , iii. 615. reorganization of, in 1832, iv. 504 ; v. 258. increase of, authorized, v. 258 .
pay of ordnance storekeepers, v. 259, 260. duties of, in connection with arsenals and
armories, ii. 733 ; iii. 204 ; v. 512. to appoint superintendent of manufacture
of cannon, v. 513. Ordway, John, land warrant to be issued to, vi.
65.

Ohio Companyof Associates, provisions respecting, i . 257 ; iii. 409 ; iv. 618 ; vi . 8.
Ohio River, navigation of, to be improved, iv. 32, and see Navigation of Rivers, p. 120.
Ojeda, Maric, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499 .
Oldenburg, discriminating duties repealed as to,

Ore, Major James, allowance to militia under, vi. 34.
--, James, lands released to, vi . 441. Oregon, purchase of Greenhow's History of, v
722.
Orgain, Sterling, and another, to be paid for work, vi. 296 .

iii. 224 ; iv. 2 ; and see Appendix, vols . iii . and iv.
Olds, Marcay, pension to, vi. 925. Olive and Vine, acts to encourage the cultiva-
tion of the, iii. 374, 667 ; iv. 444, 611 ; v. 154, 302.

Orleans Territory. See Louisiana, p. 106. establishment and regulation of, ii. 283, 322.
Ormond, William, pension to, vi . 26.
Orner, Michael, pension to, vi. 26.
Orphans' Court. See District of Columbia, p. 51.

Oliver, John M., credit to be allowed to, and Orr, James, to be paid for schooner Telegraph,

suit discontinued , vi. 705.

vi. 235.

 William, pension to, vi. 26.

Thomas, land purchase confirmed to, vi.

claim of, to be settled and paid,

106 .

vi. 196 .

Orton, John B., payment to, vi. 596.

Olivier, Madam, and another, land claim con- Osage Indians,

firmed to, vi. 500.

claims for losses by, to be paid, vi. 408.

Olmsted, Lewis, to be discharged from prison, vi. 185.
Olney, Stephen, entitled to benefit of Stat. 1828, c. 53, vi. 433.
Omaha Indians, treaty ofJuly 15, 1830, with, vii. 328. treaty of October 15, 1836, with, vii. 524.
O'Neal, William, pension to, vi. 179. land patent to issue to, vi. 614.
Oneida Indians,
treaty of December 2, 1794, with , vii. 47. treaty of January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550. treaty of February 3, 1838, with, vii. 566. Onondaga Indians, treaty of January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550. for treaties with them as one of the " Six

provision for appointment of an agent for, west of Missouri and Arkansas , iv. 25.
treaty with, of November 10, 1808, vii. 107. of September 12, 1815, vii . 133. of September 25, 1818, vii. 183. of August 31 , 1822, vii. 222. ofJune 2 , 1825, vii . 240 . of August 10, 1825, vii . 268 . of January 11 , 1839, vii. 576.
Osborn, Richard, pension to, vi. 154. William, duties to be refunded to, vi.
544 .
Osborne, Noble, preemption right allowed to, vi 270 .
Osgood, Lemuel H., accounts of, to be settled , vi. 206.

Nations, " see Six Nations, p . 157. O'Neil, John, pension to, vi . 577.

Osteen, William , authorized to exchange land vi. 853.

GENERAL INDEX .

127

O Sullivan, Mary, claim of, to be settled and | Page, Daniel, pension to, vi. 609.

paid, vi. 679.

" Ephraim, pension to, vi. 666.

Olis, William, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 396.

Joseph W., penalty remitted to, vi. 132.

Joseph, pension to, vi . 25.

Thomas, duties to be refunded to, vi. 234.

Ottawa Indians, treaty with, of January 21, 1785, vii. 16.

Paine, Raphael, land scrip to issue to, vi. 549, 725.

January 9, 1789, vii. 28.

Captain Thomas, allowance to, for pro-

August 3, 1795, vii. 49.

visions lost, vi . 483.

July 4, 1805, vii. 87. November 17, 1807, vii. 105. November 25, 1808, vii. 112. September 8, 1815, vii. 131.

Paintings, Colonel Trumbull to be employed to exe-
cute four paintings for the Capitol, iii. 400.

August 24, 1816, vii. 146. September 29, 1817, vii. 160.

contract to be made for painting for rotunda of Capitol, v. 133.

September 17, 1818, vii. 178. July 6, 1820, vii . 207. August 29, 1821 , vii . 218. a portion of, of August 19, 1825, vii.
272.
August 25, 1828, vii. 315. July 29, 1829, vii. 320. August 30, 1831 , vii. 359. February 18, 1833, vii. 420. September 26, 1833, vii. 431 . September 27, 1833, vii. 442. March 28, 1836, vii. 491. Otterson, Samuel, pension to, vi . 82. Ottoc Indians, treaty with, of September 26, 1825, vii. 277.
July 15, 1830 , vii. 328. Ottoman Porte,
Treaty with the, of May 7, 1830, viii. 408. Article 1. Merchants of the parties put, as
to duties, on the footing of the most favored nation, viii. 408. Art. 2. Consuls, viii. 408.

Palmer, Asher, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 165.
Daniel, arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 585.
Jared, pension to, vi. 26.
William, and another, to be paid for extra work, vi. 558. Panama, appropriation for mission to, iv. 158.
Pancake, Joseph, land claim confirmed to, ii. 800.
Pannil, Joseph, certificate for half- pay granted to, vi. 7.
Paoly, Paolo, payment to, authorized, vi. 47. Paranque, Stephen, bonds and security for cer-
tain actions to be received from, vi . 14. Pardee, Lemuel, pension to , vi . 417. Pardic, Chandler, pension to, vi. 25. Pardon,
power of president to grant, i. 17. not affected by act for the remission of for-
feitures, i. 218.
Parish, Jasper,to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 447.

Art. 3. Employment of brokers. Visit of Parker, Eliphalet, duties to be repaid to, vi.

American vessels, viii. 408.

241 .

Art. 4. Settlement of disputes between the
subjects and citizens of the parties, viii. 409.

F. A., to be paid for expenses, vi. 692. James, appropriation for services of, iv. 459.

Art. 5. The United States' flag to be respected - not to be lent to others, viii. 409 .
Art. 6. Vessels of war shall exhibit towards
each other courteous conduct, and the same towards merchant vessels, viii. 409. Art. 7. Vessels of the United States shall

John, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
John A., allowance to, vi . 660. Joseph, pension to, vi . 867. Martin, pension to, vi. 578. Samuel, term of a patent right extended to, vi. 262.

have the privilege to pass the Dardanelles, viii. 409.

William, Rock, and Thomas, pension to, vi. 305.

Art. 8. Vessels of either party shall not be impressed, viii. 409.
Art. 9. Wrecks . Exchange of ratifications, viii. 409.
Ottramare, J., allowance to, vi. 313.

Parkerson, Rebecca, payment to, vi. 676. Parkhurst, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 654.
-, Phinehas, pension to, vi. 23, 24. Parks, Elias, to be paid for goods destroyed, vi
254.

Outfit, of public ministers, ii. 78, 608.

Henry, pension to, vi. 176.

Overly, Henry, pension to, vi. 83.

Parmelee, Thomas, pension to, vi. 25.

Overton, Cornelius, authorized to correct a land | Parrot, Silas, pension to, vi. 75.

entry, vi. 477.

Parrott, Esther, pension to, vi. 834.

Owen, Abraham, allowance to widow and children of, vi. 196.
Owens, Benjamin, Executor of, payment to be made to, vi. 395. " Theodore, allowance to, vi. 617. William, payment to, vi. 479.
Orford, Ohio, authorized to enter land, vi. 773. Oxley, Thomas, patent right to issue to, vi. 261 .

Parsons, Israel, pension to, vi. 803 Thomas B., increase of pension to, vi.
874.
Parties, may manage their own suits, i. 92.
in case of death, how new parties made, i. 90.
to suits, may be compelled to produce books in court, i. 82.

P.

Partners, bonds for duties in name of firm to

bind all, iii. 737.

Packard, Josiah B., pension to, vi. 179. Packard, Shepherd, pension to, vi. 74.

Paschal, George W., allowance to, for indemnity, vi. 858.

128

GENERAL INDEX.

Paskell, John, grant of land to, vi. 43. Pasko, Abel A., released from a judgment, vi .
770.
Passengers, foreign seamen not admitted on board ships but by license, in foreign ports, ii. 810.
Passenger Ships, regulation of, iii. 488. Passports,
national, violations of, punished, i. 118. for ships, regulations of, i . 489 ; ii. 208,
209.
forgery of, punished, ii. 209. to pass the frontiers, iii. 199. charges on, abolished, iv. 441 . Patch, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 74. Patents for Inventions, power of congress respecting, i. 14. obsolete general act of 1790, i . 109 ; re-
pealed, i. 323. suits pending at time of repeal revived, i. 393.
general act of 1793, ch. 11 , i. 318. penalty for infringement, i. 322 ; ii. 38.
privileges of, extended to aliens, ii. 37, 38 ; iv. 577 ; and to heirs, & c., ii. 38.
superintendent of patents, iv. 396. clerks, iv. 396.
list of patents to be published annually and reported to congress, iv. 559.
renewal of patents, iv. 559. surrender of patents, iv. 559. recording of patents, iv. 605. repeal of all provision acts, v. 125. saving of actions already pending, v.
125.
general act of July 4, 1836, ch. 357, concerning, v. 117. commissioner of patents, v. 117. clerks in office, v. 118, 194 , 353. officers to make oath, v. 118. seal to be provided, v. 118. patents to be signed by secretary of state and commissioner, v. 119. applications, specifications, & c., v. 119 . examination and proceedings thereon, v. 119.
board of examiners , v. 120.
fees to be in part repaid if application is withdrawn, v. 120. interfering applications, v. 120. payments by applicants, v. 121. death of applicants, v. 121. assignment and record thereof, v. 121. caveat, v. 121.
invalid patents may be surrendered, v. 122.
additions to patents, v. 122. action for violation of, v. 123, 124. defences to actions, v. 123.
costs when plaintiff prevails , v. 123 actions respecting, where cognizable, v.
124 .
appeal to supreme court, v. 124. interfering patents, v. 123. may be extended seven years, v. 124. library of patent office, v. 125, 354,
533.
models, v . 119, 125.
patents issued, and assignments recorded, may be recorded anew, v. 191.

Patents for Inventions, (continued .) certified copy of record to be evidence, v. 191 .
new patents for those lost or destroyed, v. 192, 543.
duplicates of certain models to be procured, v. 192.
no addition to be made until duplicate model deposited, v. 193.
registration of patents and assignments necessary to their validity, v. 191 , 192.
separate patents on re-issue of a patent under § 13, v. 192.
compensation for models, v. 193. patents may issue to assignees, v. 193. duplicate drawings required, v. 193. revision of specification in addition to, or
re-issue of a patent, v. 193. disclaimer where specification is too broad,
v. 194. costs in such case, v. 194.
agents to be appointed to receive models, v 194.
additional clerks, v. 194, 353.
repayment to foreigners on refusal of patent, v. 194.
persons may affirm , v. 194. patent fund, v. 194. payment of expenses, v. 195. annual report of commissioners, v. 195. list of patents to be published, v. 195,
353.
persons may affirm, v. 194.
where a prior patent has been taken out in another country, v. 354.
assignments, &c. , to be recorded gratis, v. 354.
commissioner of, to collect agricultural statistics, v. 354, 533.
purchasers before the application for a patent may continue to use, &c ., v. 354.
provisions where application is refused, v. 123, 124.
appeal to chief justice of district court, v. 354.
evidence, v. 355. payment to judge , v. 355. commissioner may make rules as to evidence in cases contested before him, v. 355.
provision respecting the use of machines, constructed before application for the patent by the inventor, v. 354.
digest of patents to be made, v. 353, 533. distribution of do. , v . 466.
general act of 1842, v . 543. oaths, how taken when applicant is abroad, v. 544.
penalty for false marking, v. 544. how recovered, v. 544.
patentees required to mark the articles patented, v. 544, 545. repayment of fees taken by mistake, v. 543.
re-issue when patent is lost, v. 543. patents for manufactures or designs for
prints, &c., v. 543, 544. notes of acts and decisions, i. 109, 318.
building for patent-office and post-office, ii 589, 691.
additional building authorized, iv . 303. building for patent-office to be erected,
115.

GENERAL INDEX .

129

Patentsfor Inventions, (continued .) appropriations for, v. 115, 266, 346, 378, 429, 479.
jurisdiction in equity in cases respecting, iii. 481 .
Patentsfor Land. See Lands, Public, p. 95. Patin, Antoine, land claim of, confirmed, vi. 488. Patrick, Captain Matthewo Alexander, accounts
of, to be settled, vi. 730. Johnson, payment to, vi. 896. Mary A., allowance to, vi. 730.
Patridge, James, preemption right granted to, vi. 527.
Patriota, Brig, penalties in case of, remitted , vi. 133.

Pay, (continued . ) of different officers of the United States
See Compensation, p . 38 ; and the re spective titles of those officers. Paymasters- General, number, i. 280, 508, 559 ; ii. 133 ; iii. 297, 615. pay of, i . 280, 484, 559, 753 ; ii. 38, 133 ; iii. 128, 297, 615 ; v. 308.
clerks of, ii. 207 ; iii , 128. duties of, i. 280, 753 ; ii. 135, 536. bond of, i. 280 ; ii. 135 ; iii . 298. Paymasters, number and appointment of, i. 483, 604,
753; ii. 133, 735 ; iii. 115 , 128, 297, 615 ;

Patriotic Bank of Washington, acts respecting, iii. 388, 570, 618 ; v. 69, 232, 449.
Patten, James, rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195. -, Richard, to be paid for instruments for
navy, vi. 889.

v. 117, 513. pay of, i . 484 ; ii. 133, 735 ; iii. 128, 297,
615, 616 ; v. 259. bond of, i. 753 ; ii . 135 ; iii . 128, 298. duties of, iii. 128, 297, 298 ; iv. 582.

Patterson, Commodore D. T., resolution respecting good conduct of him and his troops at New Orleans, iii . 249. -, Captain Daniel T., and others, forfeitures relinquished to , vi. 171 .

to be subject to rules and articles of war, iii. 128.
when volunteers or militia are called into
service , v. 117, 259. ofengineers, ii. 720 ; v. 257.

See George T. Ross, vi. 185 .
" credit to be allowed to, vi. 321 .
" allowance to, for extra expenses, vi . 728.
John, pension to, vi. 177, 179. Joseph, pension to, vi. 32. Robert, pension to, vi. 112. Samuel, appropriation for heirs of, i. 501 .

Payment by United States, not made to persons in arrear, iv. 246. except in case of pensions, v. 31. in bank bills, v. 9, 390, 440.
Payment to United States, in bills of United States Bank, i . 196 ; iii. 274 ; v. 48.
of duties, i. 42, 45, 168. See Duties, p. 55. mode of, to be uniform, v. 310, 391. in bank bills, iii. 343. to be made in specie after June 30, 1843,

William, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.
Pattie, William, pension to, vi . 656. Pattison, James J., allowance to, for property
destroyed, vi. 709. Patton, James, increase of pension to, vi . 101 .
Robert, duties to be repaid to, vi. 58. second section of the act for the
relief of, (ante, p. 58 , ) repealed, vi 64. Paulas, Babara, prize money of her son to be
paid to, vi. 234.
Paul Jones, Frigate, live oak frame to be procured for, iv. 724.
Paulding, John, appropriation for annuity of, ii. 120.
Paulling, William K., authorized to enter land, vi. 584.

v. 390 ; repealed, v. 439. Payne, Major M. M., to be reimbursed for ex-
penses of suit, vi. 439.
Payson, Asa, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Samuel, pension restored to, vi. 417. Patrick, Joshua, pension to, vi . 123. Peabody, Joseph, pension to, vi . 24. Peace, provision for binding persons to keep the
peace, i. 609. Peace Establishment,
of army. See Army, p. 7 ; and ii. 132, 206, 290, 481 ; iii. 113, 224, 297, 426, 460, 615, 686 ; v. 256, 512.
of navy, ii. 110, 297, 390, 553. See Navy,
P. 120. of marine corps, iii. 376. See Marine

Pauper Lunatics in District of Columbia, provided for, v. 439 .
Pawling, Albert, benefit of Stat. 1828, c. 53, extended to, vi. 636.
Pawnee Indians, treaty with the Grand Pawnee tribe of June 18, 1918, vii . 172.
treaty with the Pitavirate Noisy Pawnees ofJune 19, 1818, vii. 173.

Corps, p. 109. Peacher, John, land to be conveyed to, iii. 521 . Peacock, Sloop, resolution respecting victory of,
over the Epervier, iii. 246. Pea- Patch,
resolution respecting, v. 366. appropriation for security of, iv. 425. Pearce, Elizabeth, and another, land warrants to issue to, vi. 829.

treaty with the Pawnee republic of June Pearl River, commissioners west of, vi. 104.

20, 1818, vii. 174.

Pearle, John, pension to, vi. 418.

treaty with the Pawnee Marhar tribe of Pearse, William, and another, register of brig

June 22, 1818 , vii. 175.

Hope allowed to, vi. 458.

treaty with the Pawnee tribe of September 30, 1825, vii. 279.

treaty with the four confederated bands of,

of October 9, 1833, vii. 448.

Pay,

in army. See Army, p . 7.

in navy. See Navy, p . 120 .

VOL. VIII.

17

Pearson, Amos , pension to, vi . 24. " David, pension to, vi. 608. , George, certificates of Mississippi
stock to be issued to representatives of, vi. 208 .
-, Samuel, and others, duties to be refunded to , vi. 58.

130

GENERAL INDEX .

Pearson, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi . 69.
Pease, John H., payment to, vi. 759. Silas, pension to, vi . 418.
Peck, Aaron, pension to, vi. 111. Adam, account of, to be settled, and al-
lowance to, vi. 475. James H., provision for the expenses at-
tending impeachment of, iv. 435. " John, certificates to be paid to, vi . 524.
interest and certificates allowed to, vi. 582.
" Peter, to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 477. Thomas M., bounty, arrearages, &c . , of, to
be paid, vi. 357.
William, discharged from prison, vi. 109.
Peebles, Robert, and another, payment to, vi. 707.
Peirson, George, pension to, vi . 111. Pellerin, Bartholomew , Heirs of, land patent to
issue to, vi. 847. Pellet, John, allowance to, for losses, vi . 277. Peltier, Francis, land claim confirmed to heirs
of, ii. 800.
Peltry. See Indian Affairs, p . 87. importations of, regulated, i . 702.
Pemberton, Sarah, pension to, vi. 733. -, William, to be paid for a horse, vi.
331 .
Pembleton, Jabez, increase of pension to, vi . 68.
Penalties and Forfeitures. See Fines and Forfeitures, p. 62.
Pendexter, Thomas, pension to, vi. 365. Pendleton, Benjamin, appropriation for mon-
eys paid by, iv. 462. -, David, pension to, vi. 81. Otis and Harris, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 330.
Penhallow , Daniel, pension to, vi. 902. Penitentiary, in District of Columbia. See that
title, p . 52. Pennell, Jacob, and others, duties to be refunded
to, vi. 833.
Pennsylvania Avenue, acts for improvement of, iv. 518, 612, 723 ; v . 498.
Pennsylvania Hospital, duties remitted to, vi. 197.
Pennsylvania, State of, militia fines vested in , iii . 678. interest paid to, iv. 240, 372. acts of, assented to, ii. 353 ; iv. 553, 554. grant of land to, i. 229. relief to sufferers by insurgents in, i . 423. canal of, authorized to be laid out through
public land in Pittsburg, iv. 153. Cumberland road in, iv. 553.
militia to be temporarily stationed in the four western counties of, i. 403 .
cession of jurisdiction of, over navy-yard at Philadelphia, to be requested, iv . 245.
Penny, J. P. and E. B., excess of duty to be refunded to, vi . 482. Joshua, pension to , vi . 190 .
Penrose, Clement B., to be paid $500, vi . 109. " claims of, to be settled,
and allowance to widow of, vi. 594. Pensacola and Perdido Railroad Company, right
of way over public lands granted to, v. 146. Pensacola,
marine railway at, iv. 243. wharf at, iv. 725

Pensions.
(1.) General Acts and Regulations. (2.) Who are entitled to. (3.) Evidence and Mode of Proceeding (4.) Payment and Pension Agencies. (5.) Pension Fund. (6.) Miscellaneous.
(1.) General Acts and Provisions. 1792, ch . 11 , i . 243, 324. 1796, ch. 8, i. 450. 1803, ch. 37, ii . 242, 345. 1806, ch. 25, ii. 376, ( repeals former laws,)
718 ; iii. 528, 596, 650 ; iv. 307. 1808, ch. 59, ii . 496. 1816, ch. 55, iii. 285. 1818, ch. 19, iii. 410, 528, 569. 1828, ch. 53, iv. 269, 529. 1832, ch. 126, iv. 529, 605, 612, 668 . 1836, ch. 362, v . 127 , 311. persons availing themselves of act of 1818,
ch. 19, not to have any other pension, iii. 528, 596, 650, 782.
availing themselves of act of 1832, ch. 126, not to have any other pension, iv. 530, 612.
entitled under act of 1828, ch. 53, not
to have any other pension, iv. 269. notes of acts, ii. 718. (2.) Who are entitled to, and how much. in the regular army, i. 121 , 325, 431 , 485 ;
ii. 135, 483, 673, 704 , 795 ; iii. 225. in marine corps, i . 595 ; ii . 53. in the navy, i. 525, 716 ; ii. 53 ; iv. 679 ; v.
180, 521.
officers, soldiers, and seamen of the revolution , i. 244 ; ii . 242, 345, 376, 718 ; iii. 410, 596, 650, 782 ; iv. 269, 307, 350, 426, 529, 600, 608, 668.
sea fencibles, iii. 47. rangers, ii. 670. militia, i . 273, 450, 540 ; ii . 496 , 704 ; iii.
74, 285, 297, 459. privateers, ii. 764, 799 ; iii. 86 , 103, 427 ;
iv. 18, 71 , 288. in the revenue service , iii . 127. relinquishment of bounty lands by guardi
ans, iii. 286, 395, 524. Seminole war, iii . 459. in case of certain lost vessels , ii. 170 ; v.
665. certain Indians, v. 473. state provision for, assumed by the United
States, i . 95, 129, 218 , 275 ; ii. 496. rate of pension, raised in 1816, iii. 296. rate of, in navy and marine corps , may be
raised, iii. 288.
provision where pensioner retains his rank and pay, v. 440, 657, 796.
widows and orphans, limitation suspended , i . 243, 325. generally, i. 390, 540 ; ii . 135, 170, 704, 483, 673, 790, 796 ; iii. 73, 95, 103, 225, 286, 373, 394 , 427, 459, 502 ; iv. 4, 18, 71 , 288, 350, 550, 714 ; v. 7, 127 , 180 , 187, 303 , 311 , 385, 440, 521 , 584, 647, 657, 680, 724, 731 , 796.
in regular army, i . 390 ; ii . 135, 483, 673, 795, 796 ; iii . 95 , 225 ; v. 127.
in militia, i. 540 ; iii . 73 , 285, 394, 459 ; v. 7.
in navy, i . 716 ; ii . 790 ; iii . 103, 373,

GENERAL INDEX .

131

Pensions, (continued.)

Pensions, (continued .)

427, 502 ; iv. 4, 288, 550 , 714 ; v .

duty of marshal, clerk, and district attorney

180, 440 , 521 , 731 .

to account, iii. 237, 238.

of volunteers, iii . 73 . of privateersmen , iii. 103 , 373, 427 ;
iv. 4 , 18 , 71 , 288. of volunteers, rangers, &c., iii . 285,
394 ; v. 7.

clerk of, iv. 573. care of, transferred to secretary of the navy,
iv. 573. loss of stock in Bank of Columbia to be
reimbursed to, iv. 715.

of revolutionary soldiers and seamen, v. 128, 187, 303, 311 , 521 , 584, 647, 680, 724.
limitation in act of 1838, ch. 189, extended to March 4, 1844, v. 647 ; to March 4, 1848, v. 680.

pension of person drawing from , to be paid to the fund, ii. 650.
appropriation for deficiencies in , v. 440,519, 667, 730.
duties of secretary of the navy transferred to commissioner of pensions, v. 369.

this extension to enure to pensioners

(6.) Miscellaneous.

by special acts, v. 680. widows not to draw pensions for same
time that the husband has received
one, v. 657, 796. payment of arrears of pensions, iii. 650 ; iv.
270, 530 ; v. 385.
(3.) Evidence and Mode of Proof. under act of 1792, ch . 11 , i . 244, 324.
1793, ch. 17, i . 324, 418, 495. 1803, ch. 37, ii. 242. 1806, ch. 25, ii. 376. 1818, ch . 19, iii. 410, 569 ,
782. 1836, ch. 362, v. 127. in navy , ii. 294. evidence under act of 1838, ch. 189 , v. 303.

pensions assumed by United States, i . 95, 129, 218, 275 ; ii. 496.
assignments, & c. , invalid, i. 245 ; ii . 377 ; iii. 411 ; iv. 270, 530 ; v. 128 , 303.
certain persons to be placed on the pension list, i. 392, 454 ; ii . 260, 491 ; v. 473.
secretary of treasury to prepare a list of pensioners, i. 401 , 495.
not attachable, iv. 270, 530 ; v. 303. commissioner of pensions, iv. 622, 779 ; v.
187, 369, 597. business transferred from navy department
to commissioner of pensions, v. 369. unclaimed pensions, v. 225, 521. agents authorized to administer oaths, v.
368.
for bounties in land, see Lands.

proof to be made every two years, iii. 514 ; iv. 350, 599.

annual report of applications for pensions, iv. 430.

under acts respecting revolutionary soldiers, iv. 350.

relief of pensioners in South Carolina, ii. 260 .

(4.) Payment and Pension Agencies. agent to receive pay must make oath, & c.,
i. 245 ; ii. 243 ; v . 128 , 303. agent to pay must give bonds, ii . 719 ; iii.
597, 650.
under act of 1828, ch. 53, iv. 270.

the duties prescribed by act of 1832, ch. 126, transferred to secretary of war, iv. 05.
execution of act to transfer the payment of certain pensions to Ohio, confided to secretary of war, v. 669.

under act of 1832, ch . 126, iv. 529. in bank bills, v. 9. in navy, ii. 294.

appropriations for, i . 95, 104, 227, 228 , 327, 344, 346, 439, 494, 509, 564 , 741 , 742 ; ii. 53, 65, 67, 109, 170, 188, 268, 320,

where pensioner dies, v. 385. certificate of continuance of disability re-
quired, iii. 514.

388, 435, 465, 523, 561, 646, 690, 828, 829 ; iii. 110, 210, 282, 422, 463, 481,560, 563, 632, 634, 652, 748, 762 ; iv. 8, 15, 83,

repeal of acts requiring Bank of United States to pay, v. 16.

137, 147, 201 , 247, 312, 354, 371, 433, 458, 497, 610, 672, 748 ; v. 9, 142, 214,

the act "to prevent defalcations " not to

316, 367, 412, 470, 598, 610, 656, 667, 723,

apply to pensioners, v. 31 .

730.

unclaimed pensions, v. 225, 521.

Peoria County, Illinois, commissioners of, au-

pension agencies, general provision , iii. 297. in Alabama, iv. 688 ; v. 254, 255. in Tennessee, iii . 521 ; iv. 791 ; v. 60. at Pittsburg, iv. 184. in Ohio, v. 34, 657, 669. in Virginia, v. 34. in Kentucky, v. 657, 669.

thorized to enter land, vi. 528. Peoria Indians,
treaty of September 25, 1818, with , vii. 181. treaty of October 27, 1832, with, vii. 403. Peoria Village, claims of land in , regulated, iii. 605, 786. Pepper, James, land entry confirmed to, vi. 924.

where there is no pension agent to be paid Percival, John, to be paid for moneys expended,

at Washington , ii. 505.

vi. 564.

(5.) Navy and Privateer Pension Funds. Perez, Juan, land claim confirmed to, vi. 498.

formation of, i . 716 ; ii . 53 ; iii . 287, 288. appropriations for, iv. 304 ; v. 519, 610. management of, i. 716 ; ii. 53, 293 ; iv.
572, 615.

Perham, John, pension to, vi. 927. Perjury,
in courts and suits, i. 116 ; iv. 118.
in other cases generally, iv. 118.

public faith pledged to make navy pension fund good, i. 716 ; ii. 53.

in cases under coasting and fishery acts, i. 316 ; iii. 52.

surplus (if any) how disposed of, ii. 53. secretary of commissions of, ii . 293.

in cases of accounts of public expenditures at treasury, iii . 771.

132

GENERAL INDEX.

Perjury, (continued .) in cases before committees of congress, i. 554; iii. 345. in cases of poor debtors imprisoned, i. 266, 482, 562 ; ii. 5 ; iv. 468. in pension cases, iii. 411 , 570. indictment for, how framed, i . 116. in District of Columbia, ii. 239. in examination before appraisers at customhouse, v. 564.
under acts respecting collection of duties (obsolete,) i . 46, 175, 210, 232, 316 ; (in force,) i. 695.
under registration and enrolment acts , i. 65, 298.
under acts respecting internal revenue , (obsolete,) i. 375, 386, 399, 481 ; iii. 36, 47, 156, 185.
before courts-martial, iii. 135. in navy, i. 714 ; ii . 50.
under bankrupt acts, ii . 26, 27. in oath to accounts of officers of the cus-
toms, v. 432. Perine, Daniel, authorized to enter land, vi.
150.

Perkens, Obadiah, pension to, vi . 81 . Perkins, Angier March, letters patent to issue
to, vi. 717.

Ebenezer, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

John B., allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 703.

Jonathan, pension to, vi. 90.
Joseph, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 148.

Mary, authorized to enter land, vi. 811.

Obadiah, pension to, vi. 32. Solomon, increase of pension to , vi. 84.

Perley, Frederick, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 304.
Permit to land Goods, provisions respecting,

(obsolete,) i. 39, 63, 157, 163, 171 ; (in force,) i . 664.
Perrault, P. H., appropriation to pay services of, iv. 698.
Perrera, Gabriel, land claim confirmed to, vi . 499.

Perrigo, Frederick, pension to, vi . 865.
Perrin, John, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Oliver, and another, letters patent to issue to, vi. 807.
Payson, debentures allowed to, vi. 427 .

Perrine, Henry, act for benefit of, (1838, ch.
188,) extended to widow and children of, vi. 819.

-, grant of land to, v. 302.

Perry, Christopher Grant,
Raymond, 1 Elizabeth,

annuity to, vi. 260 .

C., appropriation for, v. 484, 640 .

Hardy, land claim confirmed to, vi. 246.
land certificate to issue to, vi. 727.

John, pension to, vi. 417. Margaret, warrant for bounty land to issue to, vi. 255.
annuity to, vi . 260.

Perry, Matthew C. , allowance to, for extra ser vices , vi . 618. " Oliver H., annuity to, vi. 260. " to be paid $5000, iii. 130. thanks of congress to, for vic-
tory on Lake Erie , iii. 141 . Perrysburgh, Ohio,
grant to settlers of right of preemption to lots in, vi. 276, 836.
act to quiet titles to lots in, v. 724.
Persico, Luigi, appropriations for payments to, iv. 362, 382, 458, 512, 625 ; v. 223, 347, 378, 428, 690.
Personating another Person, offence of, in courts, i. 115 ; in cases of public creditors iv. 120.
Peru, treaty of March 17, 1841 , with , viii. 570. Article 1. Peru to pay the United States $300,000, viii. 570. Art. 2. To be paid in ten annual instalments, viii. 570. Art. 3. Interest at the rate of four per cent., viii. 570. Art. 4. To be paid in hard dollars, viii. 570. Art. 5. No further demand for claims to be
presented by S. Larned. Claims subsequent to those presented by Mr. Larned to the government of Peru to be examined, viii. 571 . Art. 6. Optional with Peru to pay with orders on the custom-house at Callao, viii. 571. Art. 7. To be ratified within two years, viii. 571 .
Peru-Bolivian Confederation,
treaty of November 13, 1836, with , viii. 487. Article 1. Peace to exist with, viii. 488. Art. 2. Favors granted to other nations
shall become common to both nations, viii. 488. Art. 3. Citizens placed on the footing of the most favored nation with regard to commerce and navigation. Coasting trade excepted, viii. 488. Art. 4. Merchants and others to manage their own business. Citizens of neither
party liable to embargo, &c., viii . 488. Art. 5. Protection of citizens of either
party, seeking refuge in the dominions of the other, viii. 488. Art. 6. Vessels captured by pirates to be restored, viii. 489. Art. 7. Assistance in case of wreck, viii. 489.
Art. 8. Power to dispose of personal estate and real estate by testament, &c . , viii. 489.
Art. 9. Protection of persons and proper-
ty. Rights of citizens to be enjoyed unless constitutionally withdrawn, viii. 489. Art. 10. Liberty of conscience secured. Rites of burial, viii. 490. Art. 11. Citizens of both parties to have a
right to trade with the enemies of the other. Free ships to make free goods, contraband of war excepted. Proviso, viii. 490.
Art. 12. Qualification of the principle as
to neutral property, viii. 490. Art. 13. Liberty of commerce and naviga.
tion to extend to all goods except contra

GENERAL INDEX.

133

Peru- Bolivian Confederation , (continued .)

Petre, Joseph Pierre, purchase money to be re-

band . Specification of articles which

funded to , vi. 570.

shall be deemed contraband, viii. 491 . Pettibone, Daniel, Heirs of, allowance to, vi.

Art. 14. All kinds of merchandise , except

833 .

contraband, free, viii. 491.

Pettipool, Joseph, account of, to be settled, vi.

Art. 15. Contraband goods, only, liable to

271 .

confiscation . Vessels not to be detained Pettrich, Ferdinand, payment to, v. 267 ; vi .

unless the articles are so great, & c ., that

877.

they cannot be removed on board the capturing vessel, viii. 491 .
Art. 16. Blockade , viii. 491 . Art. 17. Regulation of visits at sea, viii.
492.

Petty Officers, who are such, in navy, i. 710 ; ii. 49.
Pew, William, pension to, vi. 417. Pharis, James, confirmation of land claim of,
suspended, vi. 383.

Art. 18. In case of war, vessels to be pro- Phelan , Nicholas, land warrant to issue to, vi.

vided with sea-letters. If not so provi

702.

ded, may be adjudged lawful prize, viii . | Phelps, Joel, pension to, vi. 26.

492.

9 Sylvester, and others, to be paid for a

Art. 19. Vessels under convoy not to be

house destroyed, vi . 848.

subject to examination , viii. 493.

, Thadeus and Company, drawback al-

Art. 20. Prize courts only to take cogni-

lowed to, vi. 550.

zance of prizes, viii. 493.

Philadelphia,

Art. 21. Citizens of either party not to en-

limits of port of, defined , iii . 662.

gage in privateering against the other,

navy-yard, cession of, requested, iv. 245.

viii. 493.

Philadelphia, Frigate, rebuilding of, ii. 699.

Art. 22. In the event of war between the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Rail-

parties, the citizens of either nation may remain, &c. If suspected of mal-prac-

road Company, duties to be refunded to, vi. 745.

tices, may be ordered to depart. Exceptions, viii. 493.
Art. 23. Property of citizens not to be sequestered, viii . 493.
Art. 24. Immunities of public agents, viii. 494.

Philips, John, pension to, vi. 111. 9 Philip, pension to, vi . 91 . 9 Thomas, pension to, vi. 543.
Phillips, Ebenezer, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 642. Horatio G., and others, purchase money

Art. 25. Consuls , viii. 494. Art. 26. Consuls to exhibit their commis-
sions, viii. 494. Art. 27. Privileges of consuls. Consular
archives to be inviolable , viii . 494. Art. 28. Consuls may require assistance .
Deserters, how to be disposed of, viii. 494.
Art. 29. Consular convention to be framed, viii. 495 .
Art. 30. Duration of the treaty. Citizens

to be refunded to, vi . 765 . James, pension to, vi. 81. Richard, appropriation for expenditures
by, i. 185.
Samuel H., pension to, vi. 441 . claims of, to be settled, vi.
843 .
, Stephen C., allowance to, as an indemnity, vi. 595.
-, Sylvanus, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

liable for violations of this treaty. War Phinizy, Ferdinand, appropriation for supplies

not to be declared until redress has been

by, ii. 545.

demanded. Other treaties not to be Phinney, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 23.

affected by this. Ratifications to be ex- Phiole, Gaspard. See Therese Malette, p. 109.

changed within eighteen months, viii. 495.
Peru, Town of, to be laid out in lots, streets, & c. , v. 70.
proceeds of land to be paid to, v. 178. Peters, Adrian, pension to, vi . 417.
John, Representatives of, land warrant to issue to, vi. 898.
Moore, and Company, to be paid for mail carrying, vi. 900.
and Pond, moiety of forfeiture to be paid to, vi. 457.
Richard, appropriation todefray expenses of inquiring into conduct of, ii. 273. Peters's Condensed Reports, subscription for seventy copies of, iv. 495, 513. Peterson, John A., payment to be made to, vi . 743.
Samuel and Hannah, claims of, to be paid, vi . 284. Petett, Enos, pension to, vi. 90. Petit, Peter, and A. Cavalier, land claim confirmed to, vi. 238.
Petition, right of people to, i . 21 . Petray and Viel, duties to be repaid to, vi . 295.

Phanix, Alexander, to be discharged from prison, vi. 119, 120.
Physician- General, ii. 819. Piankeshaw Indians,
treaty of August 3, 1795, with, vii. 49 June 7, 1803, with, vii. 74. August 7, 1803, with, vii. 77. August 27, 1804, with, vii. 83. December 30, 1805, with, vii. 100. July 18, 1815, with, vii. 124. October 29, 1832, with, vii. 410.
Piatt, John H., account of, to be settled , vi. 245 .
Representatives and Assignees of, to be paid, vi. 314.
William, account of, to be settled and paid, vi. 128.
Colonel William, allowance to represent. atives of, in full for services, vi . 835. Pickard, John, pension to, vi . 644. Pickell, Joseph, bounty, arrearages, & c. , of, to be paid, vi . 357.
Pickering, Charles W., allowance to, vi. 693. " John, appropriation to defray ex-
penses of impeachment of, ii. 273.

134

GENERAL INDEX .

Pickering, Timothy, appropriation for accounts | Pirates,

of, ii. 562.

confederacy with, and assistance of, i. 114

Pickering, Brigantine, pay to relatives of those

concealment of, i . 114 .

lost in, ii. 170.

Piratical,

Picket, A. J., allowance to, vi. 776.
Pickett, J. C., salary of, to be paid, iv . 739, 740.

aggressions, search, and depredations, punished, iii. 510. resistance to, authorized , iii . 513.

William R., land certificate to issue to, vi. 493.

captures of ships making, authorized, iii. 512, 721.

Pickled Fish. See Fisheries, p. 63.

attacks on ships, iv. 122.

Pidgeon, John, pension to , vi . 177. Pieri. See Buoys, p. 20.
Abner, pension to, vi. 24. Pierce, Amos, pension to, vi . 24.

Pitcher, Joshua, allowance to, vi . 661. Pitchlyn, John, compensation for services al-
lowed to, vi. 143. Pitkin's Commercial Statistics,

-, James, to be paid for horses captured, vi. 273.

subscription to, iii. 464. distribution of, iii. 537.

John, and another, allowance to, for Pittman, George, increase of pension to, vi. 68.

brass butts, vi. 634.

Placide, Louis, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

B., duties to be repaid to, vi. Planters' Bank ofNew Orleans, accounts of, to

856.

be settled and paid, vi. 275.

Joseph, and others, purchase money to Plaster of Paris, trade in, regulated , iii. 361 ;

be refunded to, vi. 765.

and see Appendices I. and II.

Nehemiah, increase of pension to, vi . Platt, Frederick, pension to, vi. 25.

115.

Henry and Levi, claim of, to be paid, vi.

Silas, pension to , vi. 24, 75.

155.

9 Susan, and another, authorized to enter certain land, vi. 902 .

Nathaniel, allowance to, for forage, vi. 663.

Pierson, Erastus, pension to, vi. 804.

Plattsburg,

-, George, increase of pension to, vi. 233.
-, Harry and Morris, to be paid for work, vi. 713.

land purchased at, iii. 205. resolutions respecting victory at, iii. 247 ;
iv. 195.
Pleadings,

Pigot, Jechonias, and another, proceedings against, to be suspended , vi. 746.

amendment of, i. 91. See General Issue, p. 71.

Pike, Zebulon, pension to, vi. 324.

supreme court may make rules respecting,

Pilcher, Patton, accounts of, to be settled , vi .

i. 335 ; v. 518.

877.

Plenipotentiaries. See Ministers, p. 115.

Pillory, punishment of standing in, abolished, Ploughing and Dredging Machine, of Dr. Put-

v. 322.

nam, to be examined, v . 798.

Pilmore, Catharine, and others, authorized to Plumb Island Bridge and Turnpike Company,

locate land, vi . 509.

allowance to, vi. 829.

Pilots, appointment of, by states, confirmed, i. 54.

Nathaniel, land warrant to issue to, vi. 763 .

exempt from militia duty , i . 272. upon rivers which are the boundary of two
states, pilots licensed by either may be employed, v. 153. Pincin, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 233. Pinkerton, Andrew, pension to, vi. 94. Pinkney, Ninian, allowance to, vi . 109. Pinney, Isaac, pension to, vi. 450. Pintard, Lewis, appropriation to pay, i. 447.

Plumer, Isaac, pension to, vi. 418. Moses, authorized to enter land, vi.
329.
Plunder,
offence of, of ships wrecked, iv. 116.
attacks on ships for, iv. 116. Plunket, Rheuben, pension to, vi. 112. Plunkett, James, allowance for use of children
of, vi. 620.

Piracy,

Poe, Virgil, pension to, vi. 112.

defined, and how punished, i . 113 ; ii . 513. Poidevin, Madame, claim of, to be paid, vi . 212.

power of congress to define and punish, i . Point Coupee Parish, grant of land to inhabit-

14 .

ants of, vi. 318.

murder and robbery on high seas, &c. , are, Poiret, Baptiste, confirmation of land claim of,

i. 114.

suspended, vi. 382.

robbery on land from a ship, iii . 600 . engaging in slave trade , iii. 600.

Poirey, M., claim of, to be allowed and paid, iii. 561 ; vi. 225.

confederacies in, punished, i . 114 . aiding and abetting, i. 114.

Poissot, Paul, certificate for land to be granted to, vi. 767.

jurisdiction in cases in district court, iii. Polerecsky, Nancy, pension to, vi. 901 .

789.

Polish Exiles, grant of lands to, iv. 743 ; v. 473.

act of 1819, ch. 77, iii . 510 ; respecting pi- Polk, William, claims of, to be settled and paid,

racy, continued and made perpetual, iii.

vi. 873.

600, 721.

Pollard, William, Heirs of, land title confirmed

neutrality act of 1794 , ch. 50, not to repeal

to, vi. 680.

laws concerning, i . 384 , 497 ; ii . 54 . for treaty stipulations making privateering
against neutrals piracy, see Privateers, p. 141 . measures to be taken to put down , ii 510 .

Polleresky, John L., pension to, vi. 416. Pollock, John, authorized to withdraw land en-
tries, vi. 157. to be paid for a boat impressed,
vi. 626.

GENERAL INDEX .

135

Pollock, Oliver, account of, to be settled, i. 227 ; | Poor Debtors, (continued.)

vi. 65.

compensation of commissioner, iv.

Pomeroy, Grove, loan certificates of, to be liqui-

468.

dated, vi. 576.

district attorney, iv. 469 .

Pliny, pension to, vi . 26.

annual report to congress respecting,

Pompilly, Bernard, pension to, vi. 648.

iv. 469.

Poncar Indians,

persons entitled to benefit of the act,

treaty of June 25, 1817, with, vii. 155.

iv. 467, 595.

treaty ofJune 9, 1825, with, vii. 247.

release to be invalid in case of false

Pool, Benjamin, amount of a judgment to be

suggestions by debtor, iv. 468.

paid to, vi. 223.

sale of land conveyed to United States by,

Poole, David, pension to, vi. 4.

iv. 51, 414.

Poor Debtors,

insolvent, priority of United States, i. 263,

relief of, when imprisoned on debts to in-

515, 676.

dividuals,

delinquent, public, treasury warrant of dis-

obsolete act of 1792, ch . 29, i. 265 ;

tress, iii. 592.

continued in force, i. 370 ; and repealed, i. 483. expired act of 1796, ch. 38, i . 482, 562. act of 1800, ch . 4 , respecting, ii . 4. to have the benefit of state laws as to gaol limits, ii. 4.
oath of, to obtain discharge , ii. 5.
by whom administered, ii. 5 ; iv. 1, 19.

proceeding against, iii. 592. garnishees of, how proceeded against, iii.
443.
in the District of Columbia , ii . 237 ; iii . 682.
Pope, John, official acts of, as governor of Arkansas, confirmed, v. 208.
Popple, George, pension to, vi. 24. Porche, Simon, claim of, to land , confirmed , vi.
768.

magistrate may send for witnesses, Portage des Sioux, relinquishment of lots to in-

books, papers, &c ., ii. 5 .

habitants of, iv. 435.

debtor may be removed to convenient place, ii. 5.
offence of perjury, ii. 5. prisoners entitled to benefit of, at ex-
piration of thirty days from judgment, ii. 6.
notice to be given , ii . 5 ; iv. 19, 20. relief of, when imprisoned on debts due the
United States,
debtors may apply to secretary of the treasury for, i. 561. or to president, iii . 399.
conveyance to United States of his
property, i. 561 . certain debtors excluded from these

Porter, importation of, regulated, i. 701 . -, Bazlee, pension to , vi. 578. 9 David, and Crew, claim of United States
for penalties released to, vi. 135. -, appropriation for outfit of, v. 692.
Elias, pension to, vi. 417. James, pension to, vi. 417.
increase of pension to, vi. 180. and another, released from a judgment, vi. 333. Joel, pension to, vi. 24. General Moses, land warrant granted to, vi. 207.
Major- General, thanks of congress to, iii. 247.

provisions, i . 562. when imprisoned on debts to post-office
department, iv . 113. relief of debtors to United States who are
not imprisoned, act of 1831 , ch . 62, iv. 467 ; continued in force, iv. 595, 676 ; v. 154, 381 , 597.
application to secretary of treasury, iv . 467.

Solomon, Jr., duties to be repaid to, vi. 264 .
Thomas, pension to, vi. 455. William, register of the William allowed to, vi. 313.
R., and others, judgments against, to be held as security, vi. 429. Portsmouth, Sufferers by Fire in, to have further time to pay their custom-house bonds, vi. 49, 63.

application to secretary of treasury for discharge and proceedings thereon , iv. 467, 595 ; v. 154.
commissioners of insolvency to be appointed in each district, iv . 467 .
proceedings upon report of commissioners, iv . 467.
false oath in proceedings, made perjury, iv. 468.
secretary of treasury may execute a release in certain cases, iv. 468 , 595.
debtor not to be discharged unless his sureties consent or are insolvent, iv . 595.
if surety or co-surety be dead, consent
of his personal representative to be sutficient, iv. 676. secretary of treasury may enter satis-
faction on judgments against, in certain cases, iv. 676 ; v . 381.

Ports and Harbors, punishment of crimes in, i. 113 ; iv. 115. jurisdiction over foreign vessels in our ports, ii. 339, 484.
acts for the improvement and defence of those in the following states : -Alabama, iv. 176, 289, 348, 349, 754 ; v. 188. Connecticut, i. 345 ; iv. 176, 229, 289, 347, 552 ; v. 129, 189, 269, 347. Delaware, i . 346 ; iv . 176, 229, 290 , 754 ; v. 67, 130, 189, 269. Florida, iv. 289, 395, 552, 648, 703 ; v. 270 .
Georgia, i. 345. Illinois, iv. 645 , 752 ; v . 67, 187, 268,
619, 662.
Indiana, v . 130 , 187, 268. Iowa, v. 670, 778. Maine, i. 346 ; iv. 175, 176, 229, 275,
552 ; v. 68, 129

136

GENERAL INDEX.

Ports and Harbors, (continued.) Maryland, ì. 346, 367 ; v . 130, 189, 269.
Massachusetts, i. 346 ; iv. 38, 175, 176, 228, 289 , 343, 347, 349, 395, 460, 551 , 552, 648, 703, 754 ; v. 67, 129, 270.
Michigan, iv. 176, 229, 752 ; v. 68, 268, 619, 662.
Mississippi, iv. 228. Missouri, v. 130, 661. New Hampshire, i. 346. New Jersey, v. 130, 190. New York, i. 346 ; iv. 175, 176, 228,
275, 276, 289, 347, 363, 395, 460, 552, 648, 703, 754 ; v. 68, 129, 130, 187, 268, 269, 270, 661. North Carolina, i. 346 ; iv. 176, 289, 648. Ohio, iv. 176, 228, 275, 289, 363, 394, 459, 553 ; v. 68, 69, 187, 661 , 662. Pennsylvania, i. 345 ; iv . 38, 151 , 176, 229, 275, 289, 363, 395, 459, 460, 552, 648, 703, 754 ; v. 68, 69, 130, 187, 189, 269. Rhode Island, i. 346 ; iv. 229. South Carolina, i. 346 ; v. 130. Tennessee, iv. 229 ; v. 626. Vermont, v. 129, 661 . Virginia, i. 346 ; v. 130. Wisconsin, v. 330 , 662, 668 , 748. general appropriation without specification of locality, i. 521 , 535, 554 ; ii . 84, 402, 443, 453, 516, 547, 692, 776 ; v. 510, 602.
floating batteries for, iii. 104, 321 . cession of jurisdiction over sites, i. 346,
367, 522, 555 ; v. 468. garrisons for, i. 346, 367. states to be allowed expenses of fortifica-
tions, i. 522, 555. See Accounts, p. 2. barges for defence of, iii . 3, 217. hulks to be sunk for defence of, iii. 18. Ports of Delivery, for general acts establishing and regulating,
see i. 639, and Collection Districts, p. 32.
special acts establishing and regulating particular ports, in Connecticut, i . 112. in Florida, iv. 476. in Georgia, ii . 399. in Louisiana, iv. 475 ; v. 730. in Maine , ii. 497 , 658 ; iii . 694 ; iv. 127, 476, 600, 611 ; v. 609. in Massachusetts, i . 70 ; iv. 237, 715. in Mississippi, ii . 658. in New Jersey, ii. 355 ; iv. 715. in New York, iv. 127, 237. in North Carolina, ii. 181 ; iii. 120 , 431 , 694 ; v. 436. in Ohio, ii. 181 ; iv. 127. in Pennsylvania, iii . 662 ; iv. 403, 715. in Vermont, i . 263. in Virginia, i. 112.
Ports of Entry, for general acts establishing and regulating, see i . 639, and Collection Districts, p . 32.
special acts establishing and regulating particular ports, in Alabama, iii . 35. in Delaware , iv. 476.

Ports of Entry, (continued.) in Connecticut, iv. 206, 476. in Florida, iv. 331 , 476. in Louisiana, iv. 392. in Maine, iii. 465 ; iv. 133, 476. in Massachusetts, i . 70, 503 ; ii. 101, 658 ; iii. 464.
in Mississippi, ii. 658 ; iv. 715. in New Hampshire , ii. 656. in New Jersey, iv. 716. in North Carolina, ii . 497 ; iii . 120. in Ohio, ii. 181 ; iii. 642 ; iv. 711. in Pennsylvania, iii. 662. in Vermont, i. 263. in Virginia, ii . 181 . Portugal, vessels of, to be exempt from tonnage duties, iv. 517.
discriminating duties on produce of, suspended, v. 125.
Treaty with, of August 26, 1840, viii. 560. Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce
and navigation. Liberty of residents secured, viii. 560. Art. 2. Vessels of either party arriving in the ports of the other, put on the footing of national vessels , viii. 560. Art. 3. No other or higher duties to be imposed on importations, &c. All prohibitions to be general . No other or higher duties imposed on exportations to the United States than payable on exportations to other countries. This stipulation not to interfere with the special stipula-
tion entered into with France by the United States, viii . 560. Art. 4. Same duties on importations, & c., in vessels of either party, viii. 562. Art. 5. Favors granted by either party to other nations to become common, viii. 562.
Art. 6. No higher or other duties on exportations, &c., than are paid by national vessels. Bounties, &c., the same, in vessels of either party, viii. 562.
Art. 7. Coasting trade excepted , viii. 564. Art. 8. The foregoing stipulations not tobe
applicable to certain ports. Said ports, & c., when opened to any foreign nation, to be open to the United States, viii. 564 .
Art. 9. Protection to vessels seeking ref uge or asylum in the rivers, bays, & c . , or territories of the other, for stress of weather, or pursuit of pirates, viii. 564.
Art. 10. Each party to have consuls, & c., in each other's ports. Consuls engaging in commerce . Consuls violating the laws. Consular archives to be inviolable. Disputes between Americans, &c. , to be decided by the consul. Contending parties may resort to the judicial authorities of their own country, viii. 564.
Art. 11. Consuls, &c ., may require the aid of civil authorities to arrest deserters . How the demand for deserters shall be
made . Deserters, when arrested, how to be disposed of, viii. 566. Art. 12. Power to dispose of personal goods, &c. In case of persons holding real estate within the territories of either power, to be allowed time to sell the
same , viii. 566.

GENERAL INDEX .

137

Portugal, (continued .) Art. 13. Favors in navigation, & c. , to become common , viii. 566. Art. 14. Duration ofthe treaty. Citizens personally responsible for violations of the treaty. Reprisals not to be authorized, nor war declared, until a statement of injuries shall be presented . Ratifications to be exchanged within eight months, viii. 568.
Posner, Silvia, claim of, to be settled , vi. 513. Postmaster- General,
appointment, i. 70, 234, 357, 733 ; ii. 593 ; iv. 102.
pay, i. 71 , 235, 358, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 484 ; iv. 239.
annual reports of, i . 512, 741 ; ii. 485, 603 ; iv. 104, 113, 114 ; v. 84, 85, 525.
other duties, i. 733 ; ii . 593 ; iv. 102 ; v. 81.
assistants of, i. 70, 234, 357, 358, 733 ; ii. 593, 615 ; iii. 484 ; iv. 102 ; v. 84, 89.
provision in case of death, & c. , of, v. 89. oath of, i. 234, 358, 733 ; ii. 594 ; iv. 103. clerks of, i. 733 ; ii . 593 ; iv. 102 ; v. 84,
89.
annual estimates by, v. 80. term of office, i. 741 ; ii . 604. may instruct postmasters, iv. 102. to report obstructions to post roads, ii. 277,
594 ; iv. 104. note of decisions respecting, i. 363. Postmasters,
appointment of, (obsolete,) i . 234, 358, 733 ; ii. 593 ; (in force,) iv. 102 ; v. 87, 88.
pay of, (obsolete ,) i. 238, 363, 511,547, 739; ii. 191, 594, 601 , 604 ; iii . 220, 265 ; (in force,) iv. 104, 105, 113, 238 ; v. 735. at New Orleans, iv. 106. at Philadelphia, i. 363.
at Washington , ii. 191 , 192, 603 ; iv. 106.
accounts of, (obsolete ,) i . 238, 358, 360, 364, 735 ; ii. 602 ; ( in force , ) iv . 102, 107, 112 .

suits against, (obsolete,) i . 238, 364, 740 ;
ii. 602, 603 ; (in force ,) iv . 112, 113 ; v. 82, 83.

bonds of, i. 741 ; iv. 103 ; v. 82.

oath of, (obsolete ,) i. 234, 358, 733 ; ii . 594 ; iv. 103.

clerks of, i . 234 , 358 ; ii. 604 ; iv. 113.

provision for death , removal, &c ., of, v. 82.

duties of, (obsolete, ) i. 234, 358, 734 ; ii.

595; (in force,) iv. 105, 109 ; v. 88. term of office, i . 741 ; ii . 604 ; v. 88.

exempted from militia and jury duty, (obsolete,) i . 239, 366, 740 ; ii . 603 ; ` (in

force,) iv. 112 ; v. 88.

not to be mail contractors, iv. 113 ; v. 86.

not to act as lottery agents, iv. 238. schedules of mails to be furnished to, v.
87.

to report delinquencies in arrivals of mails , v. 87.
release of sureties of, v. 88 .

to be allowed postage in certain cases, v . 734.

to be residents in place where post-office is,

v. 88. account of receipts from boxes, & c . , v. 430,
487.

penalty for extortion , iv. 106.

VOL. VIII.

18

Post-Office Department, power of congress , i. 14. former establishment continued, i . 70, 178, 218.
obsolete general act of 1792, ch. 7, i . 233. obsolete general act of 1802, ch. 48, ii. 191 . obsolete general act of 1810, ch. 37, ii. 592. repeal of all former acts in 1825, iv. 114. general act of 1825, ch. 64, iv . 102. general act of 1836, ch. 270 , v. 80. general act of 1845, ch. 43, v. 732. provisions respecting carrying the mail and
making contracts therefor, (obsolete,) i . 232, 357, 358, 733 ; ii . 191 , 594, 595, 598, 805 ; iii. 220, 266, 536.
term of contracts, iv. 103-105 ; v. 198. free white persons, only, to be em-
ployed, iv. 104. postmaster-general to provide for, iv.
102.
in steamboats, iv. 103, 104 ; v. 736, 749.
in other vessels, iv. 103. advertising for proposals, iv. 104 ; v.
85.
exceptions as to railroad routes, v. 796.
steamboats on rivers, v. 737. duplicate of proposals to be lodged, iv.
104 ; v. 87. additional allowances to contractors,
iv. 114 ; v. 85, 87.
penalty for not fulfilling proposals, iv. 114.
changes in contracts, v. 85. consolidated and combination bids not
to be taken, v. 85.
opening of proposals, v. 86. what bid shall be taken, v. 86, 738. abstract of all proposals to be recorded,
v. 86. persons in post-offices not contractors,
or interested, iv. 113 ; v. 86. proposals to have guaranty, v. 86. bids ofcertain persons not to be taken,
v. 86, 87. payment, when made, v. 87. on canals, v. 89.
on railroads, v. 283, 314, 738, 796. carrying British mail between Boston
and Canada, v. 718. carrying mail to foreign countries, iv.
112 ; v. 748. to places on Gulf of Mexico, v. 750. on Mississippi River, v. 750. in steamships, v. 749. contractors may be authorized to carry
newspapers out of the mail, iv. 111. how often mail is to be carried, iv. 102. extension of lines, contractor receiv
ing all the postage, iv. 103. general post-office ,
obsolete acts respecting, i. 234, 357, 733, 734 ; ii. 592, 593, 595.
established in 1825 , iv. 102.
oath of persons employed in, iv. 103 . no fees allowed in , iv. 105. reorganization of, v. 80. estimates and accounts of expenditures,
v. 80.
accounts, how kept, v. 82. auditor in , v. 81 , 82.
salaries in office of, v. 89.

138

GENERAL INDEX .

Post- Office Department, (continued .) clerks in office of, v. 84, 265. to have control of debts and suits, v. 89.
district attorneys to obey instructions of, v. 83.
to adjust and settle former accounts, v . 83.
may administer oaths, v . 84. third assistant postmaster-general, v.
84 .

Post-Office Department, ( continued . ) opening, embezzling, destroying, or de. laying, &c., letter, iv. 107. failing to deliver mail, iv. 108. robbing the mail, iv. 108.
stealing, embezzling, or fraudulently obtaining mails or letters, iv. 109.
injuring portmanteau, &c., in which the mail or letters are carried, iv. 109.
accessories and accomplices, iv. 109,

clerks, v. 84, 498.

114 ; v. 89.

annual return respecting, v. 525. reports to congress, v. 84, 85. topographer in, v. 265. receipts by treasurer, form of, v. 80.
revenues of, to be paid into treasury, v. 80.

punishment by hard labor, iv. 109 . fraud on franking privilege, iv . 110 ; v.
88.
offences as to newspapers, iv. 111. appropriation of fines, &c. , iv. 112 ; v.
738 .

may be transferred to creditors of, v. 80 .
appropriations to be made for support of, v. 80.
appropration for, v. 90 , 171 , 223, 348, 330, 430, 487, 643, 668 , 739.
transfer of appropriation , v . 223, 348 , 380, 644 .
building for, ii . 589, 691 ; iii . 606, 784 ; iv.

jurisdiction over, iv. 113 ; v. 739. receivers, &c., of things stolen from
mail, iv. 114.
acting as agent for lotteries or franking lottery schemes, iv. 238.
detaining letters, & c. , v. 87. private expresses, v. 735, 736. " mailable matter," defined, v. 737. " newspaper," defined, v. 737, 738.

303 ; v. 310, 353, 378, 429, 478, 532, 644 ; vi . 816. schedule of arrival of mails, v. 87.

franking privilege , v. 732, 734, 735. account of postage of officers of govern-
ment, v. 734.

advertising unclaimed letters, (obsolete ,) i .

appropriation to pay, v. 765.

237, 361, 737 ; ii. 599 ; (in force , ) iv. 109 ; v. 85, 738. provisions as to ship letters, (obsolete,) i . 235, 239, 358, 365, 735, 740 ; ii. 596, 603 ;

jurisdiction of suits under post-office laws, iv. 113 ; v. 87, 739.
proceedings in such suits, iv. 113 ; v. 82.

(in force,) iv . 103, 106, 112. rates of postage, ( obsolete, ) i . 235, 358, 733 ;
ii. 595 ; iii. 265 ; iv . 105 , 238 .

certain copies to be evidence, iv. 112 ; v 82, 83.
in whose name to be commenced , v. 82.

in express mail, v. 88, 207. carried coastwise in private vessels , iv.
104, 106 ; v. 736. under act of 1845, ch. 43 , v. 733, 800. on newspapers, iv. 110 , 111 ; v . 733.

discharge of poor debtors from imprisonment, iv. 113.
newspapers, how to be folded, directed, & c. , iv. 111..
way letters , iv. 107.

where newspaper, &c ., is written on, iv . 105 .

recovery back of over or wrongful pay. ments, v. 83.

bonds of persons employed, i . 741 ; iv. 103 ; v. 82.
letter mail may be carried with greater expedition than the others, v. 733.
laws respecting, &c. , to be printed, v. 538.
extension of certain contracts for carry-

release of sureties of postmasters, v. 88.
purchase ofstationery, mail bags, & c ., for, v. 526.
packages weighing over three pounds not to be sent in mail, v. 737.
definition of" mailable matter," and "news paper," v. 737.

ing the mails, v. 583, 585.

Richard Imlay's plan of copper cases to be

foreign mails, v . 718, 748.

tested, iii. 719.

penalty for counterfeiting stamps, v. 749.

transportation of mail in steamboats be-

exemption of persons employed in , from

tween Louisville and New Orleans, (ob-

militia or jury duty, i. 239, 366, 740 ; ii.

solete,) iii. 496 .

603 ; iv. 112 ; v . 88.

in time of war, a mail may be sent to the

provisions as to letter carriers, i. 366, 740 ;

army, ii. 790.

ii. 603 ; iv. 112, 238 ; v. 89.

a mail may be sent to the court-house of

mail agents, iv. 107 ; v. 81 , 740.

every county, iii. 132 ; iv. 103.

provisions as to crimes connected with,

annual report of contracts, ii . 485 ; iv. 114.

obsolete acts, i. 234, 235, 236, 358 , 360 , | Post Roads and Routes,

361, 362, 511 , 733, 734, 735, 736 ; ii.

all routes established by acts previous to

595, 596, 597. stopping or obstructing the mail, iv.
104.

act of 1810, ch. 30, discontinued, ii. 588.
in time of war, may be established to army, ii . 790.

breaking bulk before delivering ship letter, iv. 106 , 107.
carrying mailable matter out of the
mail, iv. 107, 108, 111 ; v. 735, 736.

may be established to every county court. house, iii. 132.
all waters on which steamboats ply to be iii. 767.
road in Alabama to be repaired, iv. 190.

GENERAL INDEX.

139

ost Roads and Routes, (continued .) road from Nashville to New Orleans to be
repaired, iii. 779. post road between Jackson and Columbus
to be repaired, iv. 154. unproductive ones to be discontinued in
certain cases, iv. 100. survey of routes between Baltimore and
Philadelphia, iv. 194. report of unproductive routes, iv. 113. every railroad declared to be a post road,
v. 283. obsolete acts establishing, i. 218, 232, 354,
419 ; ii. 42, 191. acts establishing or discontinuing post
roads in the following states and territories :-
Alabama, iii . 453, 457, 508, 577, 581 , 627, 705, 767 ; iv. 100, 225 , 320, 322, 547 ; v. 103, 280 , 571 , 784.
Arkansas, iii . 702, 706 ; iv. 100, 226 ,
548 ; v. 106, 131 , 282, 574, 784, 785. Connecticut, ii. 45, 189, 276, 408, 581,
731 ; iii. 131 , 221 , 335, 364, 453, 454, 504, 578 , 624 , 703, 765 ; iv. 96, 222, 315, 537 ; v. 91 , 271 . Delaware, ii. 126, 190, 409, 584 ; iii. 132, 626 ; iv. 97, 223, 541 ; v. 93, 273.
District of Columbia, iii . 455 . Florida, iii . 707, 765, 767 ; iv. 226, 320,
548 ; v. 106, 275, 669, 786. Georgia, ii. 43, 189, 191 , 275 , 338, 409,
491, 588, 730 , 732 ; iii . 131 , 132, 334, 337, 365, 453, 456, 506, 577, 580, 624, 626, 705, 766 ; iv. 98 , 224, 318, 543 ; v. 95, 275, 570, 780. Illinois, ii. 584 ; iii. 132 , 222, 337, 457, 507, 581 , 627, 706, 767 ; iv. 100, 226, 319, 545 ; v. 102, 278, 573, 782. Indiana, ii . 126, 338, 584, 732 ; iii. 131 , 132, 337, 363, 365, 456, 507, 580, 627, 706 ; iv. 99, 139, 225, 318, 545 ; v. 100, 278, 573, 781. Iowa, v. 283, 575, 787.
Kentucky, ii. 43, 126, 191 , 275, 276, 409, 586, 731 ; iii. 131, 132, 222, 337, 364, 365, 453, 457 , 507, 577, 580, 624, 626, 702, 706, 765, 766 ; iv. 99, 224, 318, 546, 549 ; v . 96, 275, 572, 780.
Louisiana and Orleans, ii. 277, 338, 444, 584, 588, 806 ; iii. 131 , 132, 707 ; iv. 225, 320 , 322, 548 ; v. 99, 280, 571 , 783.
Maine, ii . 45, 126 , 189, 276, 408, 579 ; iii. 131 , 221 , 334, 364, 453, 503, 504, 577, 578, 624, 703, 765 ; iv. 95, 221 , 315, 535 ; v. 90, 107, 271 , 568, 778.
Maryland, ii . 44, 126, 190, 275, 337, 409, 584,730 , 731 ; iii . 130 , 132, 222, 337, 365, 505, 579, 626, 702, 704 ; iv. 97 , 223, 318,541 ; v . 93, 273, 569, 779.
Massachusetts, ii . 45, 126, 189, 275, 276, 337, 408, 580, 731 ; iii. 131 , 221 , 335, 364, 453 , 454, 503 , 504, 578, 624, 703, 764, 765 ; iv. 96, 221 , 315, 536 ; v. 91 , 271 , 563, 778.
Michigan, ii . 584 ; iii. 581 , 767 ; iv. 226, 320 ; v. 105, 282, 574, 786.
Mississippi, ii . 126 , 588, 730 , 732, 806 ; iii. 221 , 222, 338, 457, 507, 577, 581 ,

Post Roads and Routes, (continued .) 627, 705 ; iv. 99, 225, 320, 548, 549 ; v. 101 , 281 , 473, 571, 785.
Missouri, iii. 337, 453, 456, 507, 577, 581 , 624, 627, 706, 767 ; iv. 100 , 139, 226, 319, 546 ; v . 106, 131 , 281, 573, 785.
New Hampshire , ii . 45, 126 , 189, 276, 579, 730, 731 ; iii. 131 , 221 , 334, 335, 364, 453, 504, 578, 623, 624, 703, 765 ; iv. 95, 221 , 315, 320, 535, 548 ; v. 90, 271 , 563, 778.
New Jersey, ii . 45, 189, 276, 337, 409, 582, 730, 731 ; iii . 131 , 221 , 336, 364, 455, 505, 624 , 625, 702, 704, 766 ; iv. 222, 316, 539 ; v . 92, 272, 569, 779.
New York, ii . 45, 126, 189, 275, 276, 409, 581 , 731 ; iii. 131 , 221 , 334, 335, 364, 453, 454 , 504, 578, 624, 625, 702, 703, 765 ; iv. 96, 222, 316, 320, 537, 548 ; v. 91 , 271 , 568, 778.
North Carolina, ii. 43, 126, 127, 189, 190, 275, 337, 408, 409, 587, 730, 732 ; iii. 131 , 132, 221 , 222, 335, 337, 365, 455, 503, 506, 577, 579, 626, 702, 705, 765, 766 ; iv. 98, 224, 318, 542 ; v. 94, 274, 570, 780.
North- Western Territory, ii. 44, 126, 191 .
Ohio, ii. 275, 276, 409, 491 , 584 , 730, 731 ; iii. 131 , 222, 334 , 336, 365, 456, 503, 506, 580, 624 , 627 , 702, 706, 765, 767 ; iv. 99, 224, 319, 544 , 549 ; v. 98, 107, 276, 572, 781.
Pennsylvania, ii . 44, 125, 126 , 190, 275, 276, 337, 409, 583, 731 ; iii. 131 , 222, 336, 363, 364, 453 , 455, 503, 505, 579, 625, 702, 704, 765 ; iv. 97, 223, 317, 320, 539 ; v. 92, 272, 569, 779.
Rhode Island, ii . 126 , 581 , 731 ; iii. 765 ; iv. 221 , 537 ; v. 91 , 568.
South Carolina, ii. 43, 191 , 275, 409, 588, 730, 732 ; iii. 132, 222, 335, 337, 365, 456, 506, 577, 579, 624, 626, 705, 766 ; iv. 98, 224, 318 , 543 ;
v. 95, 107, 274, 570, 780. Tennessee, ii. 43, 125, 126, 190, 276,
408, 409, 587, 731 ; iii. 131 , 132, 221 , 222, 334, 335, 337, 365, 457, 507, 580, 627, 705, 765, 766 ; iv. 98, 225, 319, 546, 549 ; v. 97, 276, 473, 572, 781 . Vermont, ii. 45, 126, 189, 275, 408, 579 ; iii. 221 , 364 , 454 , 504 , 578, 702, 703, 765 ; iv. 95, 221 , 316, 536 ; v. 91, 271 , 568, 778. Virginia, ii . 44 , 126, 189, 190 , 275, 276, 337, 409, 585, 730, 731 ; iii . 130, 132, 222, 334, 337, 363, 365, 453, 455, 505, 577, 579, 624, 626, 702, 704 , 766 ; iv. 98, 100 , 223, 318 , 542 ; v 93, 273, 569, 779.
Wisconsin, v. 106, 283, 575 , 786.
Posse Comitatus, marshal authorized to call out, i. 87 ; iii. 197, 233.
Post St. Vincent, relief of inhabitants of, i . 318. John, and another, exempted from impris
onment, on a judgment as securities, vi. 272.
Potash and Cairn, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 155.

140

GENERAL INDEX.

Potomac Bridge,

acts respecting, iv. 582, 646, 727, 773 ; v. 132, 134, 364, 462.
Potomac Fire Insurance Company, of George-

town, incorporated, vi. 460.

act of in-

corporation amended , vi. 691 , Pottawatimie Indians,

treaty ofJanuary 9, 1789, with , vii. 28. August 3, 1795, with, vii. 49. June 7, 1803, with, vii. 74.

July 4, 1805, with, vii. 87. August 21 , 1805, with, vii. 91. November 17, 1807 , with, vii. 105 .

November 25, 1808, with, vii. 112. September 30, 1809, with, vii. 113. July 18, 1815, with, vi . 123. September 8, 1815 , with , vii. 131. August 24, 1816, with, vii. 146.

September 29, 1817, with, vii . 160. October 2, 1818, with, vii . 185.

August 29, 1821 , with, vii. 218. August 19, 1825, with, vii. 272. October 16, 1826, with, vii . 295.

September 19, 1827, with, vii . 305. August 25, 1828, with, vii. 315. September 20, 1828, with, vii. 317.

July 29, 1829, with, vii. 320. October 26, 1832 , with, vii. 394. October 27, 1832, with, vii. 399. September 26, 1833, with, vii. 431 . September 27, 1833, with, vii. 442. December 4, 1834, with , vii . 467. December 10, 1834, with , vii. 467. December 16, 1834 , with , vii. 468. December 17, 1834, with, vii. 469. March 26, 1836, with, vii. 490.

March 29, 1836, with, vii. 498. April 11, 1836, with, vii. 499.

April 22, 1836, with, vii. 500. April 22, 1836, with, vii. 501 . August 5, 1836, with, vii. 505. September 20, 1836, with, vii. 513. September 22, 1836, with, vii. 514. September 23, 1836, with, vii. 515. February 11, 1837, with, vii . 532.

any mistakes in schedules of treaty of 1832, with, to be corrected, iv. 669.

Potter, Elisha R., to be paid mileage, &c., iv. 699.

Samuel, pension to, vi . 24, 83. , and another, register for a barque,
to issue to, vi. 733.

Thaddeus, pension to, vi. 650. Woodburne, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 793.

Potts, John, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 66.

Samuel J., arrearages to be paid to, v. 165 .

Powell, James, payment of advances made by, ii. 545.

Jesse, payment to be made to, vi. 599.

John, pension to, vi . 91 , 417.
2 letters patent to issue to, vi. 452.

Stephen, pension to, vi. 26.
Powers, Elizabeth, pension to, vi . 894. -, Henry, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 155.

William, pension to , vi. 110 . -, payment to , vi. 185.

Practice, court may compel production of books and papers, i. 82. in the state courts to be followed, i. 92.
parties may appear by attorneys or per se, i. 92.
supreme court may make rules for, v. 518. issues of fact, how to be tried. See Issues,
p. 89. in equity and admiralty, facts on which de-
cree is founded to appear on the record, i. 83.
in appeals in equity or admiralty from the circuit court, ii. 244.
in courts of the United States, in Louisiana, iv. 62, 404.
Pratt, Asa, pension to, vi. 418. John, authorized to enter land, vi. 865.
-, Thomas, pension to, vi. 24. Pratte, Jean Baptiste, and others, release of land
to, vi. 386. Preble, Edward,
thanks of congress to, ii. 346. prize money to, iii. 480. Preemption of Public Lands. See Lands, Public, p. 98. Preference of United States. See Priority, p. 141 .
Presbyterian Congregation, of Georgetown, in . corporated, ii. 356 ; same act, vi. 39.
Prescott, Joseph, pension to, vi. 566. commutation of half-pay al-
lowed to, vi. 732. Presents,
no officer of United States to accept pres-
ents from foreign powers, without consent of congress, i. 15. from emperor of Morocco, disposition of, iv. 792 ; v. 409. from imaum of Muscat, disposition of, v. 409, 730.
resolutions disposing of presents from foreign powers, iv. 792 ; v. 409.
President and Vice-President of United States, salary of, i. 16, 72, 318. election of, provisions relating to, i. 16, 22, 239 ; ii. 295.
President of United States, general powers of. See the constitution, i. 16, 17. to direct removal of congress in case of sickness, i. 353. public offices, i. 620. to call forth militia in certain cases, i. 264, 424.
to lay an embargo, (obsolete, ) i. 372. to purchase and build galleys, i. 556, 569. to employ army and navy to enforce neu-
trality, iii. 449 ; and see i. 384, 497 ; iii. 370.
to assist in seizures , iii . 200 . to suppress insurrections, ii. 443. to build revenue cutters, i. 699 ; v. 795.
to exchange lands with Indians, ii. 289 ; iv 411 .
to establish military post routes, ii . 790. to procure cannon , &c ., i. 555. to establish foundries and armories , i. 555. to remove intruders on public lands, ii . 445. to exchange certain lands for fortifications ,
ii. 496 ; iv. 652. to retaliate in war with Great Britain, ü
829.

GENERAL INDEX.

141

President of United States, (continued .)

Prisoners,

to purchase hulks for protection of forts,

poor debtors. See Poor Debtors, p. 135.

iii. 18.

surrender by bail, i. 727.

to exchange lands in New York, iii. 116. Prisoners of War,

to increase amount of bonds of public officers, iii. 582, 683.

exchange of, (obsolete ,) i. 624 ; ii. 777 ; iii. 358.

to sell certain armed vessels, ii. 402. to purchase vessels to suppress piracy, iii.
720 .

keeping and support of, (obsolete,) ii. 777 ; iii. 358.
bounty on, iii. 81 , 105 , 323.

to take possession of the Floridas under Pritchard, Jeremiah, pension to, vi. 24, 77.

certain circumstances, ii. 666.

Privado, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners,

veto of, i. 12.

& c., of, vi. 920.

provision for death, removal, & c., i. 240. Privateering against Neutrals,

appropriations for building house for, i . 130 ;

obsolete acts, i . 381 , 497, 520 ; iii. 370 .

ii. 775.

acts in force to prohibit, iii. 447.

appropriations for repairing and furnishing house of, i. 497 ; ii . 55, 121 , 269, 346,

provisions respecting, in treaties with the following nations :-

432, 533, 537, 607, 775 ; iii. 48, 362, 458,

France, viii. 24.

562, 635, 673 ; iv. 512, 650, 770 ; v. 114,

Great Britain, viii . 126, 127.

172, 223, 346, 378, 429, 532, 644, 682, 753.

Morocco, viii. 101 , 484. Netherlands, viii. 44.

rebuilding president's house, iii. 205, 458,

Peru-Bolivia, viii. 493.

516, 541, 635, 784 ; iv. 194.

Prussia, viii. 94, 172.

inventory to be taken of furniture in presi-

Spain, viii. 144.

dent's house, iv. 136.

Sweden, viii. 68, 70, 74.

furniture for house of, to be, as far as prac- Privateersmen, pensions to. See Pensions, p.

ticable, ofAmerican manufacture, iv. 194 ;

130.

v. 429, 753.

Prize Causes,

house of, to be painted, v. 753. President, Frigate, building of, ii. 514.

in foreign countries, prosecution of, i. 516, 551 ; ii. 83, 120, 215.

Press, Freedom of the, not to be abridged, i. 21 .

jurisdiction of, i . 384 ; ii. 792 ; iii . 449.

Preston, Daniel, pension to, vi. 25.

proceedings in, iii. 287.

Isaac T., allowance to, vi. 428.
J. P., pension to, vi. 516. Prettyman, Mary, payment to be made to, vi.
855.

note of decisions respecting, ii. 760. Prize Money,
distribution of, ii. 52, 428. assignment of, ii. 49.

Provost, Solomon, allowance to, for losses, vi. 273.
Prewelt, Solomon , pension to be restored to, vi. 774.

in case of privateers, ii . 760 , 793. pension fund. See Pensions, p. 130. pay ofprize agents, iii. 789. share of United States, disposition, &c., of,

Price, James, grant of land to, vi. 43.

iii. 5, 287.

, Looney, land patent to issue to, vi . 498. P. B., credit to be allowed to, vi. 368.

in case of the victory on Lake Erie, iii. 130.

1 Rodman M., settlement of account of, v. 795.

in case of the victory on Lake Champlain, iii. 224, 229.

Sarah, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 551 .

in case of certain Algerine vessels , iii. 315. in case of brig Transfer, iii. 480.

William, lieutenant's pay allowed to, vi. 445 .

in case ofthe Black Snake, (a British gunboat,) iv. 23.

Priest, Job, pension to, vi. 24.

of officers and crew of the Bon Homme

Prindle, Martin, allowance to, for losses, vi . 674.

Richard, and the Alliance , v. 158. of officers and crew of brig General Arm-

Printing,

strong, v. 401.

of congress, regulations of, iii . 249, 400,

of officers and crew of the Wasp, iii. 295.

538 ; v. 764.

Probable Cause,

manner of executing printing ordered by congress, iv. 322.

when a justification in cases of seizure under collection laws , i . 420, 696 ; iii. 199,

election of printer, iv. 369. of departments, v . 476, 526.
for use of supreme court, v. 690. Prints,
copyright of. See Copyright, p. 41 .

235, 396.
general provision respecting, i. 298 ; ii. 422.
in case of seizures under acts respecting collection of internal revenue, iii. 242.

indecent, importation of, prohibited , v. 566. | Process in Courts,

Prioleau, Samuel, claim for property taken, to be settled, vi. 18.
Prior, Elisha, pension to, vi. 81.

regulations of, (obsolete acts, ) i. 123, 191 .
(in force,) i. 93, 275 ; iv. 278 ; v. 499. mesne, in favor of United States, i. 676.

Nathaniel, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 65.

of execution in favor of United States, i. 515.

Priority,

in what districts to run , i . 515.

of United States in cases of insolvency , i .

state process in places ceded to United

515 , 676. of sureties on bonds for duties, i . 42, 263,
676.

States, i. 426. when special bail in, i. 676. laws as to imprisonment for debt, to con

142

GENERAL INDEX .

Process in Courts, (continued .) form to those of the respective states, v. 321 , 410.
service of, i . 87, 88. in Tennessee, iii . 661 . notes of decisions respecting, i . 93 ; iv.
278.
supreme court may make rules as to, i. 276 ; iv. 280 ; v. 518.
obstruction of, i. 113, 117, 170 , 316. fees for, i. 94, 277, 625. consolidation of actions, iii. 19.
See Arrest, p. 9. Bail, p. 11. Execution , p. 61.
Proclamations. For certain proclamations, see Appendices to vols. iii . iv. and v.
Proctor, Amos, claim of, to be paid, vi. 932. John, authorized to exchange land, vi.
474.
Professors, of mathematics, v. 576. Prohibition, writ of, when issuable , i. 81 . Property,
loss or destruction of, by enemy, provided for generally, v. 142, 204, 288, 358 , 414, 511 , 648.
in the battle on the Wabash, ii . 705. horses of officers, which are killed in
battle, i. 463. in case of volunteers, under particular
acts, i. 558 ; ii. 420. during war of 1812, with Great Brit-
ain, iii. 261 , 397, 466 ; iv. 123. loss or destruction of, in wars with Indians,
provided for,
in campaign against the Seminole, iii . 676 ; iv. 70.
general provision, ii. 143 ; iv. 428. in campaigns on frontiers of Illinois
and Michigan, iv. 613, 726. in the Florida war, v. 358, 673. indemnification of certain Indians for loss of, iv. 576. literary. See Copyright, p. 41. Manuscripts, p. 109. private, not to be taken for public use, without reasonable compensation, i . 21. Protections, of seamen, i. 477 ; ii. 809. See
Seamen, p. 153. Protests, Consular. See Consuls, p. 40.
when evidence, i. 255. fees for, i. 255.
Prout, Holden W., claims of, to be settled, vi. 333 .
William, authorized to institute a bill in equity, vi. 228. Provident Association of Clerks, incorporated, vi. 218.
act of incorporation of, amended , vi. 334 , 337.
charter of, continued, vi. 504.
authorized to invest in stocks , vi . 681. Prudhomme, Antoine, land claim confirmed to, vi. 407.
9 Rosaline, land claim confirmed to, vi. 765.
Prussia, A Treaty of Amity and Commerce with, of July, August, and September, 1785, viii. 84. Article 1. Peace and friendship between the two nations, viii. 84.

Prussia, (continued. ) Art. 2. Subjects of Prussia entitled to the same privileges in United States as the most favored nation , viii . 84. Art. 3. Citizens of United States entitled
to the same privileges in Prussia as the most favored nation, viii. 84. Art. 4. Regulations of commercial intercourse, viii. 86. Art. 5. Vessels not to be forced to unload
merchandise, viii. 86. Art. 6. Goods to be examined before load-
ed, and not after, unless in case of fraud, viii. 86.
Art. 7. Each party to protect the vessels and effects of the other in their dominions, viii. 86.
Art. 8. Vessels coming on the coast or entering the ports of either nation, how to be treated, viii. 88.
Art. 9. In case of shipwrecks, relief to be afforded, and goods restored, viii. 88.
Art. 10. The citizens or subjects of either party may dispose of their personal estate by will or otherwise. Regulations concerning the same, viii. 88.
Art. 11. Liberty of conscience secured, viii. 90.
Art. 12. Liberty for either party to trade with a nation at war with the other. Free
ships make free goods, viii. 90. Art. 13. No goods shall be deemed contra-
band, so as to justify confiscation ; but vessels may be detained, viii. 90. Art. 14. Vessels to be furnished with sea-
letters or passports , viii. 90. Art. 15. How vessels are to be treated
when met by ships of war or privateers, viii. 92.
Art. 16. Vessels not to be detained by embargo, &c., viii. 92.
Art. 17. When recaptured vessels shall be restored, viii. 92.
Art. 18. Vessels driven by stress ofweather into port, shall be protected, viii . 92.
Art. 19. Vessels of war may carry prizes
into the ports of each nation , viii. 92. Art. 20. Citizens of either party shall not
take commissions or letters of marque
from a state at war with the other, viii. 94.
Art. 21. Regulations to be observed in case of war against a common enemy, viii. 94 .
Art. 22. Convoys in certain cases, viii. 94. Art. 23. In case of war, nine months to be
allowed to citizens to settle their affairs.
Principles of conducting war. No commissions to be granted to private armed vessels, viii. 94. Art. 24. Treatment of prisoners of war regulated, viii. 96. Art. 25. Consuls to be allowed in the ports of each nation, viii. 98. Art. 26. All favors granted to another na tion by one party, shall become common to the other, viii. 98.
Art. 27. Treaty to be in force for ten years, viii. 98.
Treaty of Amity and Commerce with, of July 11 , 1799, viii. 162.
Article 1. Peace and friendship established, viii. 162.

GENERAL INDEX.

143

Prussia, (continued .) Art. 2. Privileges of Prussia. Subjects trading to the United States, viii. 162. Art. 3. Commercial privileges, viii. 162. Art. 4. Commercial privileges, viii. 164. Art. 5. Unloading of vessels, viii . 164. Art. 6. Unloading of vessels, viii. 164. Art. 7. Protection of property within the jurisdiction of each party, viii. 164. Art. 8. Vessels coming on the coast, or entering a port, without wishing to break bulk, viii. 164. Art. 9. Shipwrecks, viii . 166. Art. 10. Alienation of real estate. Real
estate within the dominions of one party falling upon the subjects of the other, viii. 166.
Art. 11. Freedom of conscience, worship, &c., viii. 166.
Art. 12. Relative to the principle of free ships making free goods, viii. 168.
Art. 13. Of contraband, viii. 168. Art. 14. Documents to be carried by ves-
sels in time of war, viii. 168 . Art. 15. Manner of visiting vessels not un-
der convoy, viii. 170.
Art. 16. Of embargoes. Seizures, detentions, and arrests, to be made in due course oflaw, viii. 170.
Art. 17. Salvage on recapture, when one ofthe powers is neutral, viii. 172.
Art. 18. Right of asylum, viii . 172. Art. 19. Bringing in of prizes, viii. 172. Art. 20. The subjects of one party shall
not take letters of marque from the enemy ofthe other, &c., viii. 172. Art. 21. Rules applicable to the prosecution of a common war, viii. 172. Art. 22. The ships of war of one party
shall protect the vessels of another, viii. 174.
Art. 23. Regulations for softening the effects of war between the two parties, viii. 174.
Art. 24. Regulations relative to prisoners of war, &c., viii. 174.
Art. 25. Consuls, &c. , allowed to reside in the dominions of the parties, viii . 176.
Art. 26. Favors granted to others, to extend to the parties, viii . 176.
Art. 27. Limitation of treaty to ten years
from the exchange of ratifications, viii. 176 .
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation with, of May 1 , 1828, viii. 378.
Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce between the territories of both parties, viii. 378.
Art. 2. Freedom of navigation, and perfect reciprocity, viii. 378.
Art. 3. All articles of commerce to pay the same duties in vessels of either nation, viii. 378.
Art. 4. Stipulations of the two preceding articles to apply to vessels of Prussia and the United States coming from any ports, viii. 380.
Art. 5. Produce of the parties put on the most favorable footing, viii. 380.
Art. 6. Vessels of parties put on the same footing as to exportations, viii. 380.
Art. 7. Coastwise navigation excepted , viii. 38 .

Prussia, (continued .) Art. 8. Neither party to give any preference to goods on account of the importing bottom, viii . 382. Art. 9. Prospective provision for maintaining the most favored footing, viii. 382. Art. 10. Consuls , viii. 382. Art. 11. Consuls, &c. , may require the aid of local authorities, viii. 382. Art. 12. Certain stipulations in former treaties revived. Security of neutral
navigation to be the subject of future treaty, viii. 384. Art. 13. Vessels entering blockaded ports, viii. 384. Art. 14. Provisions as to personal property of citizens, &c. , viii. 384. Art. 15. Treaty to remain in force for twelve years, & c. , viii. 386. Art. 16. Ratifications to be exchanged within nine months, viii. 386. discriminating duties on ships of, repealed, iv. 2, 308. Prutt, Thomas, increase of pension to, vi. 83. Pryor, Green and Peter, land patent to issue to, vi. 693.
Public Accounts. See Accounts, Public, p. 1. suits against garnishees of public debtors, iii. 443, 444.
warrants ofdistress against public debtors, iii. 592.
dismissal of delinquent debtors, iii. 723. in what currency to be kept, i. 250. forms of keeping to be prescribed by de-
partment of treasury, i. 281 . Public Buildings,
commissioners of, to be appointed, i . 130 . office abolished, iii. 324. semi-annual reports of, i. 461.
commissioner of, to be appointed, iii. 324. to pay part of expense of streets in Washington, iii. 591 ; iv. 186. pay of, iii. 325, 689 ; v. 610 ; vi. 815. bond of, iii. 689. duties of, iii. 324, 325 ; iv. 363 ; v.134. clerk of, v. 610.
appropriations for, i . 130 ; ii. 298, 311 , 318, 499, 552, 589, 607, 691 , 775 ; iii. 205, 325, 389, 405, 441 , 458, 516, 541 , 562, 591 , 606, 635, 673, 691 ; iv . 90 , 194 , 218, 265, 303, 362, 474, 518, 649, 722 ; v. 115, 174, 758. See Capitol, p. 23.
compensation of surveyor of, ii. 775. examination and payment of claims for
work on, v. 365. examination of titles of sites of, v. 468. disposition of the banking house of the
Bank of Michigan, v. 649. disposition of buildings of the Bath Bank,
in Maine, v. 717. office of Capitol architect, iv. 266, 363. reports and estimates, vi. 815.
regulations of city of Washington, when to apply to, iv. 266, 723.
fire engines for preservation of, iii. 525, 606, 784 ; iv. 266 ; v. 174 , 267, 348.
Public Contracts,
advertisements for, v. 795. members of congress not to engage in, ii.
484, 604. none to be made without a law and appro
priation, iii. 568. exceptions, iii. 568.

144

GENERAL INDEX .

Public Contracts, (continued.) no land to be purchased without a law, iii. 568.
for carrying mail, v. 85, 86. by whom to be made, (obsolete, ) i. 610. Public Debt, debts under the Confederation assumed, i.19.
general acts for payment of, i. 138, 218, 282, 338, 370, 409, 418, 433, 448, 458,
488, 516, 562 ; ii . 168, 415 , 610, 783 ; iv. 396.
extension of time for paying loan office and other certificates, iii . 425.
commissioners of loans , i. 139.
office abolished , iii. 360. of states assumed, i. 142, 282, 283.
certificates made transferable, iii. 651. duties laid to pay, i. 180, 434. purchase of, i . 186, 282 ; ii . 405, 406 ; iii.
380 ; iv. 396. sinking fund, i. 144, 283, 433, 458, 459,
488 ; ii. 167, 551 , 610, 783 ; iii. 379. to states, i. 178, 371 , 409, 437, 458, 533. evidences of, receivable in payment for
lands, i. 507, 729 ; ii. 74, 767. not receivable, ii. 234, 405.
provisions respecting the Dutch debt, i. 218 ; ii. 169.
powers of attorney to transfer stock, how verified in foreign countries, ii . 205.
settlement of, due by states to United States, i. 616 ; iii. 651 ; v. 801.
limitation of claims for, i. 245, 338, 353,

Pulaski, Town of, site of, to be eutered and sold for the use of the country, vi. 98.
Purchases, of supplies, to be by contract, i. 610 ; ü. 536 ; iii. 427, 721. appointment of agents, ii. 536. other regulations, iii. 568 ; v. 513, 535. commissary-general of, ii. 697, 817. to give bonds, ii. 697. office of, abolished, v. 513. proposals for contracts, how advertised, v. 795.
of land not to be made except under a law, iii. 568.
for navy, how made, v. 535, 617, 794. Purdy, John, appropriation to pay for repairs
by, v. 681 . Robert, allowance to, vi. 282.
Purveyor, of supplies, i . 419, 610 ; ii . 536. office abolished, ii . 697.
Pursers in the Navy,
to give bonds, ii. 536, 697. sailing master to execute the duties of a
purser, (obsolete,) ii. 110. how appointed, ii. 697.
pay of, i. 351 , 524 ; v. 535. only one to receive pay at any navy-yard,
v. 795. Putnam, James R., examination of his ploughing
and dredging machine to be made, v. 798. Perley, and another, allowance to, vi.
625.

371, 410, 517, 580 . destruction of certificates of, provided for,
i. 353. due to United States by private persons,
settlements provided for. See Accounts, Public, p. 1. Louisiana stock created, &c., ii. 245, 771 ; iii. 663.

Putney, Asa, pension to, vi. 24. John, Thomas, pension to, vi. 417. True, and another, to be paid for extra
work, vi. 921 .
Q.

exchange of certain stocks of, ii. 783 ; iii . 663.
acts in force now, v. 438, 473. for other provisions, see Loans, p. 105. note of acts respecting, ii . 415. Public Documents,
printing of, i . 612, 755 ; iii. 140, 475 ; iv. 382, 513, 654 ; v. 717, 718.
distribution of, iii. 473, 474, 609, 718 ; iv.
136, 321 , 407, 606, 669, 743 ; v. 409. subscription to editions of, iii . 259, 398 ; iv.
471, 669. transmission of, by mail, v. 735 ; and see

Quapaw Indians,
treaty of August 24, 1818, with, vii. 176. treaty of May 13, 1833, with, vii. 424. Quarantine and Health Laws, observance of, i. 474, 619 ; iv. 577 ; v. 717. Quarles, Tunstall, and another, released from a
judgment, vi. 333. Wharton, payment to be made to ad-
ministrator of, vi. 732. Quartermaster's Department. See Army, p.
8.
regulations of, i . 222 ; ii . 696 , 742 ; iii. 615 ; iv. 173.

Franking Privilege, p. 69. Public Grounds,

Quero, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners and crew of, vi. 699.

in Washington, regulation, &c. , of. See Washington, City of, p. 176.
Public Lands. See Lands, Public, p. 94. Public Ministers. See Consuls, p. 40, and Min-
isters, p. 115 . Public Money,

Quertier, A. and Albert, drawback allowed to, vi. 743.
Quincy, William J. and Charles E., deben. tures allowed to, vi. 471.
Quiry, Asa, pension to, vi. 417.

to be deposited in banks, ii . 536 ; v . 52. sub-treasury, act of 1840, v. 385, 439. embezzlement, & c ., of, v. 385, 439. held in trust by the United States, invest-
ment of, v. 135, 465. advances of, iii. 723.
accounts of officers receiving, iii. 723. Public Officers. See Officers, p. 125 . Public Stores, how to be hired, v. 432. Publication, of the laws of the United States.
See Laws, p. 100.

R.
Rabb, James, to be paid for horses, vi. 252. Rachal, J. Eloi, land certificate to be granted
to, vi. 783. Racine, Athanasse, land patent to issue to, vi
498 .
Radcliff, William, debentures to be paid to, vi 187 .
account of, to be settled, vi 436.

GENERAL INDEX.

145

Rady, Danicl, pension to, vi. 113. Rafts,
importations in, regulated, i. 702.

appropriation for removal of the great raft on Red River, v. 228. See Navigation

of Rivers, p. 120.

Ragland, Evan, pension to, vi. 82. Railroad,

iron, importation of, iv. 604 ; v. 61 , 465, 551 .

for acts respecting different railroads, see their titles.

Ralston, Samuel, penalty remitted to, vi. 133. Ramirez, Widow, land claim confirmed to, vi.
499.

Ramsay, George D., payments to be refunded to, vi. 546. John, pension to, vi. 33.

Robert, pension to, vi. 901.
Ramsey, Joseph, discharged from a judgment, vi. 937.

Rand, B. H., custom-house bonds released to, vi. 265.

-, Mary, pension to, vi. 866.

William, pension to, vi. 827. Randall, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 122.

-, George, appropriation for payment of, vi. 888 .

H., appropriation for, v. 347.

John, released as surety of S. Holmes, vi. 840.

-, Joseph, pension to, vi. 417.

Randolph, Beverley, appropriation to pay, i . 501 . David Meade, pension to, vi. 416.
Range, James, land warrant to issue to, vi. 546.

Rangers, companies of, raised, ( obsolete ,) ii. 670, 774, 804 ; iii . 40, 74, 98 .

Ranney, David, pension to, vi . 25, 76.

Ransom of Captives, settlement of accounts for, iii. 350, 788.
Rape, offence of, iv. 115.

Rappleye, John R. , pension to, vi. 153. -, pension restored to, vi. 516.

Rappleyea, Mary, Administrator of, to be paid for certificate, vi . 146.
Rardon, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi . 724.

Rates of Postage. See Post-Office, p . 138 ; v. 733.

Rathbone, William P., accounts of, to be set-
tled, vi. 663, 821 . Rations in Army,

of what to consist, i. 120, 430, 484, 605, 754 ; ii. 134, 672 ; iii . 427.

additional, for hard service, i. 390, 409 , 431 , 484.

additional, for long service, v. 258, 308.

allowance or commutation for, i. 120, 431 , 485 ; ii. 134.
of commanders at posts, i. 508 ; ii. 134 ; v. 513.
of women, nurses, &c., ii . 134. spirit ration, ii. 290 ; iii. 488.
allowance instead of, v. 258. as to number allowed to each officer, see
their respective titles. Rations in Navy, i. 524 ; ii . 110 ; v. 546. Ray, Gratia, pension to, vi. 729.

Raymer, Frederick, allowance to, in full of his claim, vi . 572.
Raymond, Moses, increase of pension to, vi. 114. Raynsford, Joseph, pension to, vi. 417. Read, George, allowance to, for an award and
judgment, vi. 597.

VOL. VIII

19

Read, James B., allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Reap, Michael, pension to, vi. 112. Real Estate Bank, acts respecting, iii. 388, 570 Reasonable Cause of Seizure, effect of certifi
cate of, i . 695, 696 ; ii. 422. Reaud, P., and another, land claim confirmed
to, vi. 500.
Re Beck, William, pension to, vi . 67. Recaptures, salvage on, i . 454 ; ii. 16.
Receivers of Public Money. See Lands, Public, p. 99. accounts, how settled, ii. 535, 816. warrant against delinquent, iii. 592. term of office and appointment, iii. 592. to give bonds, iii. 592. compensation for, iii. 466, 523 ; iv . 193. under sub-treasury act, v. 385, 439.
Receiving, stolen goods, i. 116 ; iv. 116. a bribe, i. 117. felons, i. 116. pirates, i. 114. letters illegally taken from mail, iv. 107, 108, 109.
Reciprocity, treaty stipulations concerning, with the following nations : Austria, viii. 399. Brazil, viii. 390. Central America, viii. 322. Colombia, viii. 306. Denmark, viii. 340. France, viii. 278. Ecuador, viii. 534, 536.
Great Britain, viii. 124, 125 , 228, 229 Greece, viii. 498, 500, 502. Hanseatic Republics, viii. 366, 368. Norway, viii. 346, 348. Mexico, viii. 412, 428, 578, 582. Prussia, viii. 162, 164. Russia, viii. 444.
Sweden, viii. 232, 234, 346, 348. Tunis, viii. 159. Venezuela. viii. 466 , 468. Sardinia, viii. 512. Netherlands, viii. 524. Hanover, viii . 552, 554. Portugal, viii. 560, 562. Belgium, viii. 606, 608, 610. acts concerning, iii. 224, 510 ; iv . 2. See Tonage Duties, p . 169. Discriminating Duties, pp. 48, 49. Recognizances, remission of, v. 322. to keep the peace, i . 609. Records, of United States, where kept, i. 29, 69. of courts, i. 74. of state acts, how authenticated, i . 122 ; ii. 298 .
of continental court of appeals, i . 279. Recording of Vessels. See Registering, p. 146. Rector, Elias and William, claim of, for surveys,
to be settled, vi . 87. William, accounts of, to be settled, iii.
412 .
Reddick, Thomas F., account of, to be settled and paid, vi . 108. release of land to repre-
sentative of, vi. 661. Redington, Jacob, pension restored to , vi. 417. Redenour, Jacob, pension to, vi. 82

146

GENERAL INDEX .

Redfield, John, Jr., to be discharged from prison , | Registering, &c., (continued .)

vi. 117.

provision, where registered vessel is cap-

Red Pepper, Captain, authorized to enter land, vi. 596.

tured, i. 523 ; ii. 297. certificates to have secret marks, ii. 210.

Reed and Dunham, to be paid for advances to

where a naturalized citizen is owner or part

Elias,

troops, vi. 232.

owner, ii. 296.

John, pension to, vi. 90. P., pension to, vi. 527.

new blank certificate to be provided, ii. 818.

Isaac G., and others, forfeiture to be refunded to, vi. 603.

provision respecting, on cession of Florida iii. 660.

" Joseph, pension to, vi. 91.
Meigs and, claim of, to be settled, vi. 232.

temporary provision for invalid register, i. 449.
of steamboats, iv. 129.

Rufus S., claim of, to be settled, vi. 170.

note of decisions , i. 287.

Reeper, Francisco, allowed to enter certain land, | Regnier, John B. , authorized to enter land, vi .

v. 715.

242.

Rees, Griffith, pension to, vi. 26.

Reid, James, pension to, vi. 910.

9 Henry, J., and another, payment to, vi. 848.

and Ferguson, debentures allowed to, vi 919.

Rees, James, account of, to be settled , and suits Reilly, Boyd, purchase of patent right of, au

to be suspended, vi . 281 .

thorized, vi. 904.

Reeves, Minor, claim of, to be settled, vi. 336. Reily, John, grant of land to, vi. 448.

Refeld, Charles, land patent to issue to, vi. 498 .
Heirs of, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.
Refining Silver, iii. 774. See Mint, p. 115. Refugees,
from Nova Scotia and Canada, relief of, i . 547 ; ii . 100 , 242, 270, 556, 712 ; vi . 42, 363, 570.

Reizer, John, pension to, vi . 417. Relfe, James H., account of, to be settled, vi.
827. -, appropriation for, v. 24.
Religion, power of congress respecting, limited, i. 21.
conveyances or devises of places for wor-
ship in District of Columbia, v. 679.

Reggio, Augustin, land claim confirmed to, vi . | Rembert, Andrew, pay and emoluments allowed

500.

to, vi. 790.

Register of Debates,
purchase of, v. 174. distribution of, v. 171.

Remf, Jacob, authorized to withdraw an entry, vi. 494.
Remission, of fines and forfeitures. See Fines

Registers ofLand Offices. See Lands, Public, p. 99.
appointment and term of office , iii. 582. to give bonds, iii. 582. compensation of, iii. 466, 523.
Register, Biennial, to be published , iii . 342 ; iv. 608 ; v. 339 ; vi. 181.
Register in the Treasury, duties of, i. 66. to prepare statistics of commerce , iii. 541 . pay of, i. 67, 215, 281 , 340, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 333.
Registering and Recording of Vessels, general act of 1789, ch. 11, respecting, i. 55 ; amended, i . 94 ; repealed , i . 299.

and Forfeitures, p. 62. Renner, Daniel, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 221.
Removal, of suits from state courts, i . 79, 80 ; and see iii. 198, 234, 396. of offenders from other districts, i . 91.
Rentleman, Jacob, authorized to enter land, vi. 396 .
Reporter and Reports of Supreme Court, acts respecting, (obsolete,) iii. 376, 606, 768 ; iv. 205 ; (in force,) v. 524, 545.
Reports to be rendered, by secretary ofstate, of impressed seamen, i. 732.

general act of 1792, ch . 1 , respecting, i . 287.

respecting clerks, ii. 397 ; iii. 447 ; v. 525.

what are American vessels, i . 287, 288 ; ii . 210, 296.
what vessels may be registered, i . 288, 291, 296.

of expenditures, v. 25, 527. of changes in foreign commercial reg
ulation's, v. 507. of passengers in vessels, iii. 489.

oath for obtaining, i. 289, 290. ships to be measured, i. 290, 296. bond to be given , i . 290, 296. sale to foreigners, i . 291 , 295. certificate of record and registry, i. 291,
296.
how obtained on purchase, i. 292, 293 ; ii. 210.

by secretary of treasury, of revenue from internal duties, i. 429 expenses of postage, v. 765. of estimates, ii. 79, 80. See Estimates
p. 60. ofdomestic statistics, v. 719. of results of assay of foreign coin, ii
374 ; iii. 322.

loss of certificate, i , 294. change of, on sale or rebuilding, i. 294 .
report of sale , i. 294. name of ship, i. 288, 297. change of master, i. 297. fees, i. 297. penalties, i. 209 ; ii . 209.

respecting clerks, ii. 397 ; iii. 447 ;  525.
of deposit banks, v. 54. of expenditures, ii. 536 ; v. 25, 527. of state of treasury, monthly and quar
terly, v. 696. of contracts, ii. 485, 536.

sale by process of law, i. 498

of treasury notes, v. 204.

GENERAL INDEX.

147

Reports to be rendered, (continued .) of foreign commerce, iii. 541 ; v. 537.
of insolvent debtors, iv. 469.

Revenue Cutters, (continued .) how manned and officered, i . 175, 337, 525, 699.

by secretary of war,
respecting clerks, ii. 397 ; iii . 447 ; v. 525.

pay of officers, i . 175, 338, 462, 556, 709 ; v. 65.
pay of crew, i. 175, 338, 462, 556, 709.

of expenditures, ii. 535, 536 ; iii . 567 ; v. 25, 527.

employment of, as despatch boats, i . 400 .

of contracts, ii. 485, 536. of settled accounts , iii. 771 .
by secretary of navy, respecting clerks, ii. 397 ; iii. 447 ; v. 525.
of expenditures, ii. 535, 536 ; iii. 567 ;

in coöperation with navy, i . 699, 700. to enforce quarantine laws, i. 474, 619 ,
iv. 577.
to cruise on the coast in winter, v. 208. authority of, over vessels , i . 175, 700, 701. officers of, to be officers of the customs, i

v. 25, 401 , 527. of contracts, ii. 485, 536.

175, 700. distribution offines, i . 462, 697.

by officers of the customs,

sale of, where old, i. 462, 700.

of official receipts and expenditures, i . 417.

building or purchase of, i. 462, 700. contracts for rations for, i. 699.

of passengers arriving in vessels, iii.

ensign of, i. 700.

489.

Revenue Officers. See Customs, Officers of the,

by postmaster-general,
of unproductive post roads, i. 512, 741 ; ii. 603 ; iv. 113.
respecting clerks, ii. 397 ; iii. 447 ; v. 525.

P. 44. appointment and duties, i . 642, &c. Reviere, Henry L., authorized to enter land, vi. 786.
Revolution,

of expenditures, v. 25, 527. of contracts, ii. 485.

documentary history of, iv. 654. diplomatic correspondence of, iii . 475.

by commissioners of sinking fund, i. 283, | Revolutionary Pensions. See Pensions, p. 130.

437 ; ii. 170.

Revolt, on board of ships, i. 113 ; iv. 775.

of expenditures in armories and arsenals, Reynolds, Allen, allowed to complete entries for

i. 352, 556.

drawbacks, vi. 413.

of contingent fund of congress, v. 25, 527.

Elisha, increase of pension to, vi. 140.

by auditors of the treasury, iii . 368. of clerks of congress, v. 525. ofarmed settlers in Florida, v. 503.

Harvey, pension to, vi. 765. Jeremiah, penalty for importing slaves remitted to, vi. 87.

of appropriations and new offices , v. 117.
by commissioner of public buildings, vi . 815.

John, pension to, vi. 113. C., to be paid for money stolen,
vi. 852.

by commissioner of patents, v. 195. of navy pension fund, i. 716 ; ii. 53 ; iv.
572.

G., to be paid for extra services, vi. 585.
Mary, balance to be paid to, vi. 387.

of applicants for pensions, iv. 430. of transfers of appropriation, ii . 536. of arms sold, ii. 481 . respecting Cumberland road, ii. 359.

Nathaniel, grant of land to heirs of, ii. 712.
Robert, pension to, vi. 585. Solomon, pension to, vi. 25, 101.

Representatives, House of,

Thankful, pension to, vi. 854.

apportionment of members. See Apportionment, p. 5.

William, allowance to, for services, vi. 324.

how to be chosen, i. 10 , 11 ; v. 491.
See House ofRepresentatives, p. 84. Rescue,

Rheams, Tobias, land title confirmed to, vi 205 .
Rhode Island, State of,

of criminals imprisoned , i. 117.

acts extended to, i. 126.

of dead body of convict, i. 113. Reservations, of public lands. See Lands, Pub-

courts of United States in, i. 128. census in, i. 129.

lic, p . 94. Resignation, of president, i. 241.

assent to acts of, i. 184, 189, 243. prisoners in, under authority of the United

Resisting, officers of the customs, i. 44, 170, 316, 678 ; iii. 782.

States, how kept, v. 385. duties on goods from, before admission to
the Union, i. 69, 101.

officers serving process, i. 117.

Rhode Island College, to settle the claims of, vi.

officers acting under neutrality act, ii. 340,

40.

341 .

Rhodes, William, pension to, vi. 178.

Resolutions, on various miscellaneous subjects, Ricara Indians, treaty of July 18, 1825, with,

ii. 306, 666 ; iii. 248, 471 ; v. 720.

vii. 259.

Resource, Ship, duties remitted on teas import- Ricaud, John, to be discharged from prison, vi.

ed in, ii. 117.

184.

Retaliation, on enemy , authorized, (obsolete ,) ii. 829.

credits to be allowed to, vi . 283, 692.

Revenue Cutters,

Rice, Chauncey, pension to, vi. 805.

number of, i 175, 699 ; ii . 254, 505 ; iv. 577.

Charles, pension to, vi . 24. -, Elisha, increase of pension to, vi. 101.

148

GENERAL INDEX.

Rice, Henry, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241.

Ravafinoli, Vincent de, letters patent to issue to,

G., debentures allowed to, vi. 372.

vi. 435.

Hopkins, authorized to enter lands, vi . | Rivard, Francis, Heirs of, land patent to issue

496 .

to, vi. 868.

-, Owen, and others, claims of, to be exam- Rivers,

ined, vi. 627.

certain, declared to be highways. See High

-, Thomas, and another, credits to be al-

ways, p . 82.

lowed on judgment against, vi. 138. Rich, William, payment to, vi . 941 .
Zacheus, pension restored to, vi. 417. Richards, Isaac, pension to, vi. 25, 101 . Richardson, Andrew H., moneys to be refunded
to, vi . 474 .

improvement of channels of. See Navigation of Rivers, p. 120.
Riviere, Philip, land claim confirmed to, vi. 708.
Roach, Stephen J., and another, claim of, to be settled, vi. 624.

-, George, pension to, vi. 75.

appropriation for, v. 641.

, Henry, prize money to be paid to Roads,

representatives of, vi. 769.

reservations of public lands for. See Lands,

-, payment to , vi. 672.

Public, p. 96.

James D., pension to, vi. 418.

Cumberland road. See that title, p. 43.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 82. Landie, to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 312.
Thomas, to be paid for goods purchased of him by soldiers, vi . 558.
-, William, pension to, vi. 178. Richart, Thomas, pension to, vi . 26. Riche, S. and M., penalty released to, vi. 890. Richey, David, pension to, vi. 76. Richmond, Frederick, payment to, vi. 766.
Washington Volunteers, claim of, to

surveys for, iv. 22, 151 , 351. acts respecting,
in Alabama, iii . 563 ; iv. 190, 351 , 618 ; v. 266.
in Arkansas, iv. 5, 135, 244, 259,
463, 557, 650, 712, 718, 724, 753, 777. in Florida, iv. 5, 94 , 132, 227, 349, 351 , 427, 723, 753, 777 ; v. 144, 195, 261, 331 , 670. in Indiana, iv. 234, 473, 702.

be settled, vi. 799.

in Iowa, 7. 670, 778.

Richoux, Pierre, Widow of, land claim confirmed to, vi. 808.
Ricker, Isaac, allowance to, for a horse, &c., impressed, vi. 361. Reuben, pension to, vi. 417.
Ricketson, Joseph, Brig, released from forfeiture , vi. 87.
Ricketts, Micajah, pension to, vi. 657. William, pension to, vi. 544.
Rider, Peter, pension to, vi. 32. Seneca, pension to, vi. 803
Riddle, Beckile, and Headington, bill of exchange allowed to, vi. 537. allowance to , vi. 618.
Hugh, land warrant to issue to, vi. 903. and another, to be paid for extra
work, vi. 921 . Ricb, Nicholas and Peter, account of, vi. 17. Riflemen, companies of, authorized, iii . 96. Riggins, Joel, pension to, vi . 417. Rights, bill of, i. 21.
Riker, Margaret, seven years' half- pay allowed to, vi. 590.

in Louisiana, v. 196, 197. in Maine, iv. 304, 349, 369, 424, 467,
556, 716 ; v. 265. in Massachusetts, v. 17, 63. in Michigan, iv. 231 , 351 , 427, 462,
556, 557, 560, 561, 648, 718, 777. in Ohio, ii. 668 ; iii. 285, 727 ; iv. 215,
242, 263 ; v. 296. in Tennessee, iii . 315, 377, 412 ; v.
65.
in Wisconsin, v. 303, 328, 748. in North-West Territory, ii. 180. from Memphis to Little Rock, iv. 5, 216, 244, 718.
from Ohio to Michigan, iv. 71 . from Missouri to New Mexico, iv. 100 ; v.
47. from Detroit to Chicago, iv. 135, 351 , 427,
462, 648, 777. from Fort Smith to Fort Towson, & c ., iv.
244, 397, 753. from Fort Howard to Fort Crawford, iv.
602. to protect western frontier, v. 67.

Riley, Brevet-Major, and others, to be paid for horses lost, vi. 466. James, pension to, vi. 417.

from Dubuque, v. 352, 670. from Nashville to New Orleans, iii. 779. from frontier of Georgia to New Orleans,

Ring, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 231 . Ripley, Brigadier- General, thanks of congress
for bravery of, iii . 247. Eleazar W., allowance to, vi. 428. pension to, vi. 683.

ii. 397, 444, 524. in Mississippi, iv. 154. from Nashville to Natchez, ii. 525. between Fort Hawkins and Fort Stoddard,
iii. 315, 412.

Tilson, duties to be refunded to, vi. 380 .

from Washington to Wheeling, iii . 560. in Georgia, iii . 563 ; iv. 618.

Rising States, Schooner, bounty allowed to owners, & c., of, vi . 618.

from Plattsburg to Sacketts' Harbor, iii 749 .

Risley, Timothy, land warrant to issue to, vi. 505.

from Green Bay to Winnebago Lake, iv 424 .

Ritchey, Esau, pension to, vi. 417.

in Illinois, iii. 318.

Ritchie, James, accounts of, to be settled, vi. Roads, Abiel, and others, fishing bounty allowed

934 .

to, vi. 631 .

Ritter, Jacob, Jr. , drawbacks allowed to, vi . Roanoke Inlet Company, assent of United States

813.

to charter of, iv. 573.

GENERAL NDEX .

149

Robbe, John, pension to, vi. 17. Robbery, Offence of,
on high seas, i. 113 ; üi. 600 . See Piracy, P. 134.
in Indian territory, ii. 141 . See Indian Affairs, p. 87.
of mail, iv . 108. See Post- Office, p. 137. in navy. See Rules and Articles, p. 150.

Roddy, Alexander, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi . 275. -, James, further time allowed to settle claims of, vi. 531.
Representatives of, discharged from a bond, vi. 883.
claims of executors of, to be set. tled, vi. 522.

Robbins, Brintnel, to be paid for boats, vi. 291. Roderick, Anthony, to be paid for services, vi.

Jeremiah, increase of pension to, vi. 93.

308.

Roberts, Benjamin C. , allowance to, for supplies, &c. , vi. 857.
S., conditionally discharged from a judgment, vi . 938.
Edmund, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 759.
Elvington, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 377.
-, Hugh, payment to, vi. 185. John, and others, allowance to, vi . 565. -, incorporated, vi. 419.

Rodgers, Commodore John, sureties of, to be indemnified, vi. 180. -, expenses of, to be
paid, vi. 206. Charles, payment to, for distillery de-
stroyed, v. 161 . John, allowance to, for improvements ,
vi. 483.
A., pension to, vi. 638. Rodman, Samuel and William, bonds of, to be
cancelled, vi. 174.

full pay allowed to, for five years, Rodriguez, Francisca, land claim confirmed to,

vi. 490.

vi. 499.

Levi M., pension to, vi. 417. Mark R., pension to, vi. 364. Colonel Owen, claims of his widow and
orphans to be adjusted , vi. 6.

John, to be paid for damage to prop
erty, vi. 259, 412. Santiago, land claim confirmed to,
vi. 499.

Robert M., authorized to purchase land, Rogers, Allen, allowance to, for provisions, vi.

vi. 791.

904.

Robertson and Barnwell, duties to be refunded to, vi. 471. James, duties to be refunded to, vi. 643.

David, and Sons, drawback allowed to, vi. 443.
Jabez, duties on spirits remitted to, vi. 17.

" John, expense of ransom of, to be paid, vi. 29.
" Thomas Bolling, allowance to, vi. 174.
-, William, Representatives of, authorized to surrender a certificate of further
credit, and a patent to issue to, vi . 476.
H., interest remitted to , vi. 872. Robin, Martin, land claim confirmed to, vi . 500.

John, pension to, vi . 26. allowance to, vi . 170.
Jonathan, Jr., to be discharged from prison, vi. 158.
" Joseph, claim of, to be paid, iv . 576. -, Samuel, grant of land to, ii . 242.
" Thomas, pension to, vi. 112. Roget, Isaac, debentures to be paid to, vi . 187.
Roll, Matthias, bounty land warrant to issue to, vi . 452.

Robinson, Beverly, and others, certificate to be Rollins, Catharine, pension to, vi . 724.

paid to, vi. 587.

David, pension to, vi. 774.

-, David, and others, allowance to, vi.

Ebenezer, drawback allowed to, vi.

747.

455 .

Elizabeth, allowance to, vi . 636. James, pension to, vi. 417. Noah, pension to, vi. 68.
Peter, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Robert, to be paid as clerk, vi. 94.

Rolls, Sally, and others, payment of pension of, vi. 657.
Roman Catholic Church, land confirmed to, vi. 500.
at St. Louis, duties remitted to, vi . 600 .

-, Thomas, Representative of, to be re- Romer, Henry, pension to, vi. 417.

leased, vi. 317.

Romero, Antonio, authorized to locate land, vi.

Wallace, authorized to exchange land,

668 .

vi. 435.

Ronde, Pierre Dennis De La, payment to, for

William, allowance for damages to, vi. 146.

injury sustained from United States troops, vi. 260.

M., payment to, vi. 185.

Rose, Abner, increase of pension to, vi. 140.

Robison, Alexander J., to be paid for medical

John, Sen., claim of, to be settled, vi. 594.

services, vi . 583.

, Samuel D., allowance to, vi . 884.

-, Moses, confirmation of land claim of, Ross, Charles, and another, claim of, to be set-

suspended, vi. 382. Rock, an Indian, pension to, vi. 305. Rockville and Washington Turnpike Company,
act of Maryland concerning, extended to the District of Columbia, iii . 482. Rockwell, Charles, pay of chaplain allowed t, vi. 791.
John A., land patent to issue to, vi 849.

tled and paid, vi. 173. -, George T. , D. T. Patterson, and Associ ates, forfeitures relinquished to, vi. 171 .
George T., D. T. Patterson, and Associ ates, money how to be distributed among, vi. 185 .
John, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi 173.
G., and another, claim of, to be set

2 William, pension to, vi. 417.

tled, vi. 480.

150

GENERAL INDEX .

Ross, John T., drawback allowed to, vi. 391. -- , Zephaniah, pension restored to, vi . 417.
Rossetter, Samuel, pension to , vi. 25, 77. Roulet, John S., debentures to be paid to, vi.
187.
Rouse, Lewis, to be paid for whiskey, vi . 448. Row Boats, for custom-houses, i. 699, 700. Rowe, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 74.
-, George, authorized to locate land, vi. 778.
John and Samuel, land warrant to issue to, vi. 769.
Joseph, prize money to be paid to representative of, vi. 563.
Ludwick, land warrant to issue to heirs of, vi. 769.
Susannah, pension to, vi. 763. Rowel, Hubert, land title confirmed to, vi. 206. Rowell and Haskell, duties to be repaid to, vi.
241 . Rowlett, John, copyright continued to, vi. 389.
copyright of, restricted to books
in his hands, vi . 403. extended to, vi. 897.
Rowlett's Tables, banks in District of Columbia may calculate interest or discount according to, iv. 310.
Roxburgh, Alexander, claim of, to be settled, vi. 167.
Roy, Beverly, pension to, vi. 631. Royal, James, pension to, vi. 418.
Royall, William, commutation of half-pay to be paid heirs of, vi. 595.
Royce, Elijah, pension to, vi. 25. Royston, Jesse F., allowance to, for a horse lost,
vi. 353. Rozier, George, and another, debentures to be
paid to, vi. 187.
Rucker, Elliott, judgment to be released to, vi. 301 .
Rudd, Lieutenant John, prize money to be paid to, vi. 672.
Ruff, Samuel W., to be allowed pay of a surgeon, vi. 636.
Ruland, Isaac, pension to, vi. 654. Israel, grant of land to, ii. 712.
Rules and Articles in the Army, power of congress to make, i. 14 . act of 1806, ch. 20, ii. 359. officers to sign, ii. 360.
divine service, ii. 360 . profane swearing, ii. 360.
contempt, reproach, and disrespect, ii. 360, 363.
mutiny and sedition , ii. 360, 366. conduct of officers on, ii . 360 , 361.
assaulting superior officers, ii . 361 . disobedience of orders, ii. 361. to be read on enlistment, ii. 361. oath on enlistment, ii. 361. discharges, ii . 361 . furloughs, ii . 361. certificates of absence , ii . 361 , 362. false certificates and musters, ii. 362. bribery, ii. 362.
monthly return of regiments, ii . 362. desertion, ii. 362. absence without leave, ii. 362, 365. reenlistment without discharge, ii. 362. advising to desert, ii. 362. duels and challenges , ii. 363. quirrels and affrays, ii. 363. sutlers, ii. 363, 366.

Rules and Articles in the Army, (continued .) good order to be kept, ii. 363. delivering up of criminals, ii . 364. complaints against superiors, ii. 364. embezzlement, & c. , ii. 364, 365. captains made accountable for arms, cloth ing, &c., ii. 365. retirement at beating of retreat, ii. 365. attendance on parade , ii. 365. drunkenness, ii. 365. sentinels, ii. 365.
evasion of duty, ii. 365. false alarms, ii . 365 . quitting guard, ii. 365. violence to persons bringing supplies, in
365, 366. misbehavior before enemy, ii. 366, 369. watchword, ii. 366. behavior on march, ii. 366. forcing safe guard, ii. 366. assisting or corresponding with enemy, u.
366 . captured stores, ii. 366.
compelling superiors to surrender to enemy, ii. 866.
brevets, ii. 366. command on march, ii. 367. engineers, ii. 367. courts-martial, ii. 364 , 367, 368, 369, 370,
371 ; iv. 417. judge advocate , ii. 367, 368, 370. standing mute, ii. 368. arrests, ii. 369. ungentlemanly conduct, ii. 369. pardon of persons convicted by court-mar-
tial , ii. 369.
courts of inquiry, ii. 370. effects of deceased officers and soldiers, ii.
370, 371. who are subject to these rules, ii. 371. rank of militia officers in actual service, ii.
371 .
uniform , ii. 371. to be published every six months, ii. 371. spies , ii. 371 . repeal of former rules, ii. 371. whipping abolished, ii. 735. Rules and Articles in the Navy, power of congress to make, i. 14. act of 1799, ch. 24, i. 710 ; repealed, ii.
53.
conduct of commanding officer, ii. 45. divine service , ii. 45. scandalous offences, ii . 46, 47. conduct before enemy, ii . 47. regulations as to prizes, ii. 46. distribution of prize money, ii. 52, 53. assignment of prize money, ii. 49. corresponding with enemy, ii. 47. spies, ii. 47. mutiny and sedition , ii. 47. disobedience of orders, ii. 47. assaulting superior officers, ii. 47. quarrelling, ii. 47. desertion and rebellion , ii. 47. entertaining deserters, ii. 47. offences on shore, ii. 47, 48. frauds on United States, ii. 47, 48. unskilful and negligent navigation, ii. 47,
48. murder, ii. 48 convoy, ii. 48.
taking merchandise on board, ii. 48.

GENERAL INDEX .

151

Rules and Articles in the Navy, (continued .) Russia,he(rceoanfttienru,ebdy.)citizens of the United States

waste, burning, and embezzlement of prop-

north of 54 degrees 40 minutes, or by

erty, ii. 48. theft and robbery, i. 712 ; ii. 48.
detection of offenders, ii. 48.

Russia south of the same latitude, viii.
304. Art. 4. Interior seas to be free to both na-

muster rolls, &c ., ii. 48. duties of commanding officer, ii . 49. to be read monthly and hung up in ships,
ii. 49. treatment of crew, ii. 49. persons under arrest, ii . 49 , 51. crimes not specified, ii. 49. "petty officers," definition of, ii . 49. assignment of wages and prize money, ii.

tions for ten years, viii. 304. Art. 5. Certain articles always to be ex-
cepted from this commerce, viii. 304. Art. 6. Ratifications to be exchanged in
ten months, viii. 304. Treaty with Russia, December 6 , 1832,
viii. 444. Article 1. Liberty of commerce and navi-

49.
courts-martial, ii. 50, 51 . judge advocate , ii. 50, 51. pardon of punishments, ii. 51 .

gation, viii . 444. Art. 2. Tonnage duties reciprocally on the
footing of the most favored nation , viii.
444 .

courts of inquiry, ii. 51. loss of vessel, ii. 52.

Art. 3. Merchandise imported in the ves. sels of either party not to be subject to

pay to continue while in captivity, ii. 52. bounty on destruction of enemy's vessel,
ii. 53.

increased duties, viii. 446. Art. 4. The same rule to prevail, whether
such vessels arrive from their own or

navy pension fund . See Pensions, p . 130. repeal of former act, ii. 53.
RulespoowfeCrouorfts,upreme court to make, respecting process, i. 276 ; v . 518.
in general, v. 518 . general provisions as to all courts, i. 83, 335.

foreign ports, viii . 446. Art. 5. Merchandise which may be import-
ed in national vessels, may be so in the
vessels of either party, viii. 446. Art. 6. No higher duties shall be imposed
than on the same articles from other
countries. All prohibitions shall be gen-

respecting jurors, v. 394 . Rumsey, Charles, pension to, vi . 154 .

eral, viii. 446. Art. 7. The coasting trade excepted from

Ruminer, Daniel, pension to, vi. 178. Runaways. See Fugitives, p. 71. Runnels, Captain T. , appropriation for, iii. 749.
Running, away with ships, i. 115. Rush Island, title to, to be ascertained , v. 584. Rush, Richard, allowance to, for extra services,
vi. 892. Russ, Joseph, and another, claim of, to be set-
tled, vi . 624. Russel, H. W., to be paid for forage, vi. 712.
William W., drawbacks allowed to, vi.

articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, viii. 448. Art. 8. Consuls, &c. Their authority and
privileges . Consuls to judge and arbi-
trate in certain cases, viii. 448. Art. 9. Consuls, &c. , may require the aid
of local authorities to arrest deserters. Deserters to be sent back within four
months, viii. 448. Art. 10. Succession to personal estate, and
disposal thereof, viii . 448. Art. 11. Favors granted to other nations

367.
Russell, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi. 115. Gilbert C., claim of, for expenses, to be

shall become common , viii. 450. Art. 12. This treaty to extend to Poland,
and to continue in force until January 1,

paid, vi. 61 . value of property and labor
of, to be ascertained , vi . 333. allowance to, for damages,
vi. 347. " James, pension to , vi . 123. Joshua, allowed to relinquish certain

1839, viii. 450 . Art. 13. Ratifications to be exchanged
within twelve months, viii . 450.
Separate Article, viii . 450 . Certain stipulations which relate to the
commerce between Russia, Prussia, Swe-
den and Norway, not to be connected

land, vi . 286 . Oliver, pension to, vi. 111. Samuel, allowance to , vi . 336.
Seth, and Sons, duties refunded to, vi. 133 .
William, land claim of, to be examined, vi. 571.

with this treaty, viii. 450. Russian Ships, discriminating duties repealed
as to, iv. 2 ; and Appendix . Russwurm, Lieutenant William, commutation
of half-pay allowed to , vi . 719. Rutgers, Arund, authorized to locate lands, vi.
414.

land patent to issue to, vi . Ryan, Jeremiah, pension to, vi. 3.

498.

Rybecker, John, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

Russia ,

Ryneason, Minny, pension to , vi . 154 .

act to enforce treaty of April 17, 1824, with,

iv. 276. Convention with, of April , 1824 , viii.
302. Article 1. Navigation and fisheries of the
Pacific to be free to both parties, viii .
302 . Art. 2. Illicit trade to be prevented , viii.
302. Art. 3. No establishment " to be formed

S.
Sabin, Elihu, pension to, vi . 25, 93. Flavil, account of, to be settled , vi . 186.
Sacketts ' Harbor, proprietors in, to be paid for
wood, vi . 327. Sac and Fox Indians,
treaty with, of January 9, 1789, vii. 28. treaty with, of November 3, 1804, vii. 84.

152

GENERAL INDEX.

Sac and Fox Indians, (continued .)
treaty with, of September 13, 1815 , vii. 134 .
treaty with, of September 14 , 1815, vii. 135.
treaty with, of May 13, 1816, vii. 141. treaty with, of September 3, 1822, vii. 223 . treaty with, of August 4, 1824, vii. 229. treaty with, of August 19, 1825, vii. 272. treaty with, of July 15 , 1830 , vii. 328. treaty with, of September 21 , 1832, vii.
374.
treaty with, of September 17, 1836, vii. 511.
convention with, of September 27, 1836, vii. 516.
treaty with, of September 28, 1836 , vii. 517-520.
treaty with, of October 21 , 1837, vii. 540. treaty with, of October 21 , 1837, vii. 543. treaty with, of October 11, 1842, vii. 596. relinquishment of a reversion to, iv. 740. school lands of, v. 522. boundary of reservation of, v. 622, 666. Saddler, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 74. Safe Conducts, violation of, i . 118. Safford, Joseph, and others, land warrant to issue to, vi. 778. Saganaw Indians,
treaty of January 14, 1837, with , vii. 528. December 30, 1837, with, vii. 547. January 23, 1838, with, vii. 565 ; v. 680 . February 7, 1839, with, vii 578.
Sage, Nathan, payment to representatives of, vi. 756.
Salaries. See Compensation, p . 38. Sale,
of arms to states, ii. 481 ; iv. 127. of unserviceable stores, iv . 127. of lands of debtors, ii . 61 ; iv. 51 , 264, 314. of. certain public vessels, iv. 131 . of sites no longer wanted, iv. 167, 169, 264 ;
v. 611. of lands for taxes , iv . 190. of bonds of United States Bank, v. 296. of unclaimed imports, v. 653. of certain presents, iv. 792 ; v. 409, 730 . of revenue cutters, i. 462, 700. of public lands. See Lands, Public, p. 95. Sally, Schooner, released from forfeiture, vi. 99.
fishing bounty allowed to owners and crew of, vi. 633. Salee, William J. , sureties of, released, vi. 333. Salmonds, Joseph, pension to, vi. 733.´ Salsbury, Thomas, pension to, vi. 417. Salt Lick Reservation, land may be granted to settlers on, vi. 779.
Settlers in, act for benefit of, extended, vi . 808. Salt Springs, provisions respecting. See Lands, Public, p. 97. Saltus, Son, and Company, claim of, to be settled, vi. 148 .
Salvage, on recaptures, regulations of, i . 716 ; ii . 16, 760 .
on wrecks in Florida, iv. 132. note of decisions respecting, ii. 16.
Sampson, Crocker, Heirs of, land warrant to issue to, vi. 763.
Sanborn, Coffin, pension to, vi. 736. Sanchez, Diego, Francisco, and Joseph, land
claims confirmed to , vi. 499, 500 .

Sanders, William G. , allowance to for property destroyed, vi. 888.
Sanderson, Samuel, to be paid for services, vi 708 .
Sands, Austin L., and another, allowance to, vi. 287.
-, Comfort, and others, to settle the claim of, vi. 38.
allowance to assignec of, vi. 287.
John, fines to be remitted to, vi . 931. Joshua, a credit to be allowed to, vi. 131.
-, judgments against, to be paid, vi. 150 .
allowance to, vi. 287. Richardson, allowance to representatives of, vi. 287.
Sandusky, County of, title to land, vested in commissioners of, vi . 276.
Sandusky River, sales of land at, iii. 308. Sanford, Elihu, duties to be refunded to, vi.
601.
Santee Indians, treaty of October 15, 1836, with, vii. 524.
Sapp, John, to be paid for a horse lost, vi. 477. Sarah, Sloop, register for, to issue, vi. 753.
George, Brig, allowance to crew of, vi 599.
Sardina, Bisente, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.
Sardinia, Treaty with Sardinia, November 26, 1838, viii. 512.
Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation, viii . 512.
Art. 2. Vessels of either party, arriving in the ports of the other, put on the footing of national vessels, viii. 512.
Art. 3. Importations by American vessels into Sardinia. Importations by Sardinian vessels into United States, viii. 512.
Art. 4. The stipulations in the second and third articles, how applicable, viii. 514.
Art. 5. Sardinian vessels may export from the United States. United States inay export from Sardinia, viii. 514.
Art. 6. No other or higher duties to be imposed on importations than are imposed on importations of other nations, viii. 514.
Art. 7. Coasting trade excepted, viii. 514. Art. 8. No preference of importations to
be given to either party, viii. 514. Art. 9. Favors granted to other nations to
become common, viii. 516. Art. 10. Vessels of both nations to have
the same footing as vessels of the most favored nations, viii. 516. Art. 11. Shipwrecks, viii. 516. Art. 12. Vessels of either nation , forced by distress into the ports of the other, to be exempt from port charges, provided, & c. , viii. 516. Art. 13. Blockades, viii. 516. Art. 14. Articles of commerce allowed to pass from Genoa through the Sardinian territories, &c. Notice of any transit duty to be given. Importations from the United States to be considered the prod uce of United States, viii. 518.
Art. 15. Consuls to have the privileges and

GENERAL INDEX .

153

Sardinia, (continued.) exemptions of those of the most favored nations. Consuls engaging in commerce to be subject to the same laws and regulations to which individuals are subject, viii. 518.
Art. 16. Citizens or subjects of one party, being appointed consuls by the other, to be subject to the laws of the country to which they belong, viii . 518.
Art. 17. Consuls may require the aid ofthe civil authorities to arrest deserters. Deserters must be sent back within three
months, viii. 520. Art. 18. Power to dispose of personal
goods. In case of real estate, alien heirs allowed time to dispose of the same , viii. 520. Art. 19. The treaty to continue in force for ten years, &c. , viii. 520. Art. 20. Ratifications to be exchanged within ten months, viii. 522. Separate Article, viii. 522. the United States to establish differential
duties upon certain goods, viii. 522. discriminating duties on vessels of, iv. 2. Sargent, John, pension to, vi. 233. Sargent, Winthrop, appropriation to, for forage, i. 339. Sarpy, Gregoire, land patent to issue to, vi. 854.
Sartain, Joel, allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 626 .
Satterwhite, Edwin T., account of, to be settled
and paid, vi . 121 , 132. Saucier, Jean Baptiste, land title confirmed to,
vi. 530.
Saunders, Isaac D. , land certificate to issue to, vi. 776.
John, and another, allowance to, vi. 625.
Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 76. -, payment to, vi. 185.
William, and others, judgments against, to be held as security, vi. 429. Saunderson, Moses, pension to, vi. 26. Savage, James, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.
Captain Teakle, and his Associates, allowance to, vi. 194.
William H., allowance for rent to, vi. 133 .
Savannah, Sufferers by Fire in, credit for duties extended to, vi. 241 .
Savannah, port duty at, iii. 331 , 683. obstructions of harbor of, iv. 173. streets in, v. 311.
Savings Institution of Louisville, interest on money in, to be deducted, vi. 756.
Sartell, Hezekiah, pension to, vi . 80. Sawyer, Abraham, increase of pension to, vi .
93.
James Lucius, to be paid for services, vi. 474.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 25, 124. Sayre, James, pension to , vi. 737.
-, Stephen, allowance to, vi . 65. Schell, George, pension to, vi . 3.
Scheltz, Christopher, allowed to enter certain land, v . 715.
Schenk, Peter, discharge of judgment against, iii. 423.
VOL. VIII. 20

Schmuck, Ellen A., to be paid half- pay of ca; tain , vi. 658.
Schnabel, George, receipts of, to be received for land , vi. 876 .
Schadde, Theodore A., to be paid for advances to troops, vi . 232.
Schooners, certain tonnage duties remitted , vi. 18 .
Schoonover, Samuel, pension to, vi . 179. Schoultz and Vogeler, to be compensated for
property destroyed, vi. 150 .
Schrack, Lewis, to be paid for rifle-stocks , vi. 403.
Schutte, Cuspar C. , bonds of, to be cancelled, vi. 173.
Schwartztrawber, Philip, to be paid for services, vi. 940.
Scire Facias,
writs of, i . 81 , 90. to Bank of United States, iii. 276. Scoone, George, pension to, vi. 57. Scotland, Thomas, pension to, vi. 113. Scott, Alexander, to be reimbursed for expenses, vi. 121 .
" allowance to, vi. 318. to be paid for services, vi . 436.
" Amasa, pension to, vi. 24. -, Charles, increase of pension to, vi . 68. -, David, increase of pension to, vi. 180.
Edward, pension to, vi. 3. Eleazer, pension to, vi. 364. Elizabeth, land warrant to issue to, vi 524 .
-, payment to, vi. 542. Hector, debentures to be paid to, vi. 325. James, pension to, vi. 653.
allowed to enter certain land, v. 715 .
John, amount of a certificate to be paid to, vi. 392.
interest allowed to, vi. 440. -, pension to, vi. 656.
to be paid for damages, vi. 855. Richard, pension to, vi. 73. Samuel, pension to, vi. 179. Thomas, pension to , vi. 418. William, pension allowed to, vi. 33, 74, 417.
pension to, vi. 505. Major- General, thanks of congress to , iii . 247. use of his " Tactics, " iii. 616, 686 ; vi . 770. Scribner, Nathaniel, pension allowed to, vi. 25. Scrivener, James, payment to be made to, vi. 517.
John, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi. 866.
Scudder, William Smith, pension allowed to, vi. 26.
Scull, James, land patent to issue to, vi. 498. Seaburn, James, excess of duty to be refunded
to, vi. 857.
Sea, fencibles, iii. 47, 114, 219. Sea Gull, pensions of officers and crew of, v
665, 667. Seal,
of United States , i. 68. of courts, i . 93, 187, 276. of territories, i. 286. to be affixed to commissions, i. 68.
Sea-letters, of ships , ii. 209, 568. Seamen,
government and regulation of, in mer chants' service, i . 131.

154

GENERAL INDEX.

Seamen, (continued . ) absconding, remedy against, i. 132 ; v. 395, 396. in fisheries, i . 229 ; ii . 36 ; iii. 2. citizens only employed in public and private ships, ii. 809.
exception where there is a deficiency of seamen in a foreign port, ii. 810.
regulation as to naturalized citizens, ii. 809.
act not to apply to seamen of nations who have not adopted similar restrictions, ii. 811.
discharge of, in foreign ports, i . 256 ; ii. 203; v. 395.
relief and protection of, i . 477, 729, 731. impressed, i. 477 , 729, 731.
relief of sick and disabled , i . 551 , 605, 729 ; ii. 192 ; v. 602.
foreign seamen deserting, to be delivered up, iv. 359.
additional, concerning shipment and discharge of, v. 394.
duty of foreign consuls of the United States respecting, v. 394 .
seamen not to be taken as passengers, ii. 810.
revolt and mutiny by, i . 113 ; iv. 775. delivery of deserters from French ships, iv.
160. See France, p. 66. provision for, where vessel is sold abroad ,
i. 256 ; ii. 203. agents abroad to relieve, i. 477. provision for, at New Orleans , ii . 192. on Mississippi River, ii . 192, 193 . allowance for bringing home, ii. 204, 651 ;
iii. 146. list of, to be delivered to collector and con-
sul, ii . 203 ; v. 394. shipments contrary to law to be void, v.
395.
wages in such case, v. 395. remedy of, for wages, i. 133, 134. proceedings when they complain that ves-
sel is unseaworthy, i . 132 ; v. 396. medicine chest, i. 134 ; ii . 330. hospital money. See Hospitals, p. 84. account of, to be rendered on arrival home,
i. 605. appropriations for relief of sick and disabled
seamen, i . 551 , 617 ; ii . 188, 321 , 389, 466, 562, 614, 647, 690 , 829 ; iii. 81 , 111 , 146, 210 , 283, 358, 423, 501 , 560 , 561 , 632, 672 ; iv. 16 , 91 , 148, 599 , 767 ; v. 23, 207, 345, 379, 430, 470, 485, 486, 596, 602, 643, 651 , 690, 763, 765.
Scamens, Gilberts, grant of land to , ii. 712. Search Warrants, regulations of, i . 21 . Searcy, Jeremiah, pension to, vi. 154.
and others, land patents to issue to, vi. 498 . Sea Stores,
how ascertained at custom-house , i . 161 , 661 .
in passenger ships, iii. 488. Sears, Snow Y. , fine to be refunded to, vi. 879.
-, Winthrop, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 715. Seat of Government, establishment of, i. 130 , 214. removal of, in case of contagious sickness,
i. 620.
to Washington, ii. 55.

Seaton, George C., arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 615.
Seavey, Nathaniel, donation to, vi. 191. Seawell, Lieutenant Washington, credit to be al
lowed to, vi. 624.
Seawright, J. D., and others, to be paid for horses lost, vi . 466.
Seay, Jacob, pension to, vi. 113. Secret Journal,
of congress under the Confederation to be
published, iii . 609. distribution of, iii. 718.
Secret Service Money,
acts respecting, i . 129, 300 , 541 ; ii . 78, 609.
reports of items of expenditure not to include, v. 25.
Secretary ofthe Navy, compensation of, i . 554, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 484.
reports to congress by. See Reports, p. 146. duties of, generally, i. 553, 554. duties of, as commissioner of navy pension
fund. See Pensions, p. 130 . provision for absence of, i. 554. Secretary of the Senate. See Congress, p. 39. reports from. See Reports, p. 146. Secretary of State, appointment, i. 68. duties of, generally, i. 67, 68.
to render reports. See Reports, p. 146. to publish laws. See Laws, p. 100 . to keep and affix the seal of the United
States, i. 68. to purchase state laws, i. 97. as to patents. See Patents, p . 128. in mint. See Mint, p. 115. fees of, for certified copies, i. 69. pay of, i. 67, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 484. provision for absence , &c ., of, i. 68, 281 , 415.
Secretary ofthe Treasury, appointment of, i . 65. pay of, i . 67, 730 ; ii. 152, 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 484. assistant of, i . 65 , 216, 280.
provision for absence, & c., of, i. 67, 281 , 415 .
duties respecting pensions. See Pensions, p. 130.
to act as agent respecting stock in United States Bank, v. 56.
respecting collection of duties, i. 704 ; iii. 734 ; iv. 274 ; v. 566.
to give copies of papers to claimants of land, iii. 721 .
Secretary of War, appointment of, i. 50.
pay of, i . 67, 730 ; ii . 152, 250 , 456, 713 ; iii. 309, 484.
duties as to pensions, iv. 605, 779 ; v. 669. duties of, generally, i. 50.
respecting settlement of accounts, 1 . 771 .
care of navy taken from, i. 554. reports from. See Reports, p. 146. provision for absence, &c., of, i. 50, 281 ,
415 .
oath of, i. 50.
Secretary of Foreign Affairs, office of, established, i. 28. to be called secretary of state, i . 68.

GENERAL INDEX .

155

Secretaries of Territories, to publish their laws annually, v. 541 . See titles of particular territories.
Secreting, absconding seamen, i. 133. Sedition,
act to suppress, (obsolete,) i . 596. in army, ii. 360. in navy, ii. 47. Seely, Joab, patent fees to be refunded to, vi. 821 .
Thaddeus, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

Settlers on Public Lands, provisions respecting, ii. 445 ; iii. 260, 393, 450.
Settlement, of public accounts. See Accounts, p. 1.
Sewall, Henry and Robert, to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 585.
Seward, Daniel, payment to, vi. 285. certificate of $ 116 to be issued
to, vi. 347. Seven Nations in Canada, treaty of May 31 ,
1796, with, vii. 55.

Segura, Francisco, Louis, Eloy, Rafael, St. Jugo, Severson, Richard, pension to, vi. 653.

and Matildo, authorized to locate land, vi . Sevier, A. H., land patent to issue to, vi . 498.

668.

John, and others, authorized to enter

Seizures,

land, vi. 313.

proceeding on, how and where tried, i. 77. Seybert's Statistical Annals, subscription to, iii.

in revenue cases, i . 695 ; and see iii. 197.

464 .

probable cause of, a justification , i . 696 ; ii. Seybold, John, allowed to withdraw land entry,

422 .

vi. 211.

what officers may seize, and where, i. 678, Seymour, Jesse, limitation of Stat. 1816, c. 65,

692.

§3, extended to, vi. 793.

for trade with enemy, (obsolete,) ii. 779 ; iii. 195.

William, increase of pension to, vi. 20.

disposition of unclaimed goods, v . 653. Selby, James, duties to be refunded to, vi. 771 . Selden, Joseph D. , appropriation for, iv. 698. Seminole Indians,
treaty of May 9, 1832, with, vii. 368. treaty of March 28, 1833, with, vii. 423.

Shackford, John, allowance to, in full of claim for rent, vi. 593.
Shafer, Jacob, land warrant granted to, vi. 359. Shaler, Ephraim, account of, to be settled, vi .
164. --, Joseph, pension to, vi. 91.

appropriation for support and removal of, v. 316
land to be selected for, v. 316.
payment of expenses of a delegation of, v. 414 .

Shallops and Schooners, French, duties remitted on, vi. 18.
Shane, Anthony, grant of land to, vi . 149. - and another, value of lands
granted to be ascertained, vi . 726.

Seminole War, volunteers in, provided for, iii . | Shannon, Chloe, grant of land to , ii. 712.

676 ; iv. 70.

Shannon, George, land warrant to be issued to,

Semoice, an Indian, authorized to enter land, vi.

vi. 66.

677, 689. Senate,

Shannon, George, pension to, vi. 123, 191 . land warrant renewed to, vi.

president pro tem. of, i. 239.

143.

See Congress, p. 39.

Captain Samuel, accounts of, to bo

Seneca Indians, treaty of June 30, 1802, with, vii. 70.

settled, vi. 880.

allowance to repre-

June 30, 1802, with, vii. 72.

sentatives of, vi . 908.

July 22, 1814, with, vii. 118.

--, William and Hugh, claim of, to be set-

September 8, 1815, with, vii . 131.

tled and paid, vi . 384.

September 29, 1817, with, vii. 160. Sharon, Samuel, pension to, vi. 153.

September 17, 1818, with, vii. 178. February 28, 1831 , with, vii. 348. July 20, 1831 , with, vii. 351 .

Sharp, Robert, grant of land to, ii. 712. Shattuck, Jared, $33,864,55, to be paid to, vi.
116.

December 29, 1832, with, vii . 411. January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550.

Shaumburgh, Bartholomew, to be paid for advances, vi. 523.

May 20, 1842, with, vii. 586.

Shaver, Nathaniel, Representatives of, authorized

pensions to, vi. 167, 305.

to locate land, vi. 675.

appropriation to carry into effect treaty with, vi. 465.
fund of, iv. 442, 685 ; v. 47, 777. annuity of, iv . 528. Sengstack, C. P., to be paid for glass , vi . 918. Serpas, Antonio and Joseph, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.
Succession of, land claim confirmed to, vi . 499. Serry, Augustin, pay of a boatswain allowed to, vi. 79.
Serving, in foreign wars, iii . 447. See Neutrality, p. 123. process against ambassadors, i. 118. process of states in places ceded to United States authorized, i . 426.
Setting, on foot military expeditions, iii. 447 . See Neutrality, p . 123.

Shaw, Elizabeth, pension of her husband to be paid to, vi. 385. 9 Henry, pension to, vi. 90. > James, pension to, vi. 178. John, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187. John Robert, pension to, vi. 82. Joseph, pension to, vi. 112, 428. Moses, letters patent to issue to, vi. 438. Samuel, pension to, vi. 75.
Shawnee Indians, treaty of January 31 , 1786, with, vii. 26. August 3, 1795, with, vii. 49. June 7, 1803 , with, vii. 74. July 4 , 1805 , with , vii. 87. November 25 , 1808, with, vii . 112. July 22, 1814 , with, vii. 118. September 8, 1815, with, vii. 131 September 29, 1817, with, vii . 160 . September 17, 1818, with, vii. 178 .

156

GENERAL INDEX.

Shawnee Indians, (continued .) November 7, 1825, with, vii. 284. July 20 , 1831 , with, vii. 351. August 8, 1831 , with , vii . 355. October 26, 1832 , with, vii . 397. December 29, 1832 , with, vii. 411 .
payment to those who served in Florida war, v. 800.
Shawneetown, acts respecting, ii. 591 ; iii . 113 , 778 ; iv. 451 ; vi. 132.
Shea, Stephen, pension to, vi . 416 . Sheaff, Henry, and others, bond of, to be can-
celled, vi. 243.
Shearer, Sextus, appropriation for, v. 695 . Shears, William, bounty, arrearages, & c., of,
to be paid, vi. 357. Sheckler, Frederick, pension to, vi . 417. Sheep, importation of, for breed, i. 324, 699. Sheets, Zebulon, authorized to exchange lands,
vi. 768.
Sheffield, Amos, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi . 569.
Sheffler, George, pension to, vi. 860. Shelby, Governor, thanks of congress and med-
al to, iii. 476.

Ships and Vessels, (continued . ) crews to be citizens , ii . 809. proportion of crew citizens in respect of tonnage duty, iii. 351 , 352. enrolment of, in coasting trade and fish eries. See Enrolment, p. 59. passenger, regulations of, iii. 488. armed merchant, regulations of, ii. 342. foreign papers of, to be deposited with consuls, iii. 362. fraudulent destruction of, ii . 290.
conspiracy to destroy , iv . 116. See also Seamen, p. 153. name of vessel to be painted on the stern,
i. 56, 60 , 288 , 297, 309. public vessels to cruise in the severe sea-
son, so as to relieve vessels in distress, v. 208.
as to vessels moved by steam, see Steamboats, p. 162.
departure of ships chartered and laden on account of United States, ii. 719.
medicine chest, i. 134 ; ii. 330. robbery of, i. 113 ; iii. 600. what are American. See American Ves-

Sheldon, Elijah, pension to, vi . 81 . Gideon, pension to , vi. 804. Ptolemy, pension to, vi. 176.
Shell, George, increase of pension to , vi. 101 . Shelly, Abraham, grant of land to , vi. 41 . Shelmerdine, Samuel, pension to , vi . 611 . Shenandoah Bridge Company, authorized to
erect a bridge, vi . 848.

sels, p. 5. provisions respecting wrecks . See Wrecks,
p. 181. Shipping, articles, i. 131 ; v. 394. Shirkey, John, pension to , vi . 375. Shite, Peter, pension to, vi. 418. Shiverick, Thomas, penalty to be refunded to,
vi. 412.

Shepherd, David, allowed to enter certain land , v. 715.
Joseph, allowed to enter certain land , v. 715.
Moses, payment to, vi. 336. " Thomas, pension to, vi. 25. Sheppard, John H. , satisfaction to be entered on judgment against, vi . 800.
Sherfey, Benjamin, fine to be refunded to, vi . 555.

Shoemaker, Jacob, duties to be refunded to representatives of, vi. 682.
Sholes, Captain_Stanton, account of, to be settled, vi. 242.
Shomo, Joseph, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 343.
Short, Eli, pension to, vi. 153. Peter W., pension restored to, vi. 804.
-, Peyton, to be credited with $517 85, vi. 192 .

Sherman, Lemuel, to adjust the account of, and Shriver, David, Jr., appropriation for, iv. 148 .

pay, vi. 7.

Shrofe, Emanuel, pension to, vi. 929.

Richard, increase of pension to, vi . Shubrick, E. R., allowance to, for extra ser-

76 .

vices, vi. 618.

Sherwood, Eliphalet, pension to, vi. 81.

Shumate, William I., pension to, vi. 179.

Zachariah, pension to, vi. 123.

Shurley, Bennett, land warrant to issue to, vi.

Shields, James, entitled to right of preemption,

756 .

vi. 249.

Shute, John, and others, allowance to, vi. 239.

John, land warrant to be issued to, vi . | Shuttlief, Joseph, pension to, vi. 3.

66.

Siam ,

-, Thomas, and others, to be paid for prisoners captured, vi. 261 .
allowance to, for property lost, vi. 274.
Shillito, Sarah, to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 325.
Shinnick, Jacob, to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 150.

Treaty of Amity and Commerce with, of March 20, 1833, viii. 454.
Article 1. Perpetual peace between the two nations, viii. 454.
Art. 2. Citizens of the United States at
liberty to enter the ports of Siam with their cargoes, and to sell and barter the same, viii. 454.

Shipley, Ether, account of, to be settled, vi . 238.

Art. 3. Duties payable by vessels of the United States. No duties payable by

Shipman, Charles, to be paid for losses by Indians, vi. 849.
Shipp, Edmund, sword to be presented to , iv. 792 .
Ships and Vessels, registry of. See Registering, p . 146 . passports and sea-letters for, i. 489 ; ii. 203, 210, 568.
at New Orleans , ii. 260 ; iii . 347. in Florida , iii. 660.

vessels entering to refit, viii . 455. Art. 4. Duties to be diminished as dimin.
ished to the most favored nation, viii. 455. Art. 5. Assistance in case of shipwreck, viii. 455. Art. 6. Settlement of debts contracted in Siam , viii. 455. Art. 7. Merchants of the United States to
rent the king's factories, &c ., viii. 455 .

GENERAL INDEX .

157

Siam, (continued .) Art. 8. Citizens of the United States taken
by pirates to be set at liberty, viii. 455. Art. 9. Merchants of the United States to
respect the laws of Siam, viii. 455. Art. 10. Appointment of consuls, viii . 455. Final ratification of the treaty reserved for
the president of the United States, viii. 456.
Sibbald, Charles F., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 864 .
Sibley, Cyrus, half amount of a judgment to be paid to, vi. 393. Solomon, to be paid for property destroyed, vi. 300.
Sicily, Convention between the United States and his
Majesty the King of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, October 14, 1832, viii . 442. Article 1. Agreement to pay the United States for spoliations on American property, viii. 442. Art. 2. To be paid in nine equal instalments, viii. 442.
Art. 3. Ratifications to be exchanged in eight months, viii . 444.
commission to adjudicate upon claims, iv. 666.
commission extended, iv . 666. Siddle, George, pension to, vi. 365. Silva, Joze Roiz, to refund to, excess of duties
paid, vi . 22.
Simmons, Elijah, authorized to locate a tract of land, vi. 677. James, appropriation for, ii. 647. Joseph, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 813. -, pension to, vi . 938 . Moses, John, and Edward, payment to, vi. 185 . William H., to be allowed for services, vi. 362.
Simner, Isaac, value of his lease to be ascertained, iv. 57.
Simonton, Alexander, pension to, vi. 67. J. W., interest remitted to, vi. 872.
Simpson, Mark, pension to, vi . 934. Moses W., payment to be made to, vi.
784.
Thomas, increase of pension to, vi . 77. William, increase of pension to, vi . 233 .
Simson, William, pension allowed to, vi. 33. Sinclair, Noah, increase of pension to, vi. 76. Singletary, Ithamar, pension to, vi. 33. Sinking Fund,
how composed, i. 186, 434, 459 ; ii . 167, 246 ; iii. 145, 186, 191 , 227, 379, 664.
management of, i . 458, 488 ; ii. 416, 551 , 657, 803 ; iii. 102, 145, 636 ; iv. 4.
commissioners of, i. 186. secretary of, i. 459.
powers of commissioners of, suspended, v. 115.
Sinnard, Thomas, allowance to, for extra work , vi. 782.
Sioune Indians, treaty of July 5, 1825 , with, vii. 252.
Sioux Indians, treaty ofJuly 19, 1815, with , vii. 126. July 19, 1815 , with, vii. 127. June 1 , 1816, with, vii. 143 . June 22, 1825, with, vii. 250

·

Sioux Indians, (continued .) July 16, 1825, with, vii. 257. August 19, 1825, with, vii. 272. July 15, 1830, with, vii. 328. September 10, 1836, with, vii. 510. October 15 , 1836, with, vii . 524. November 30, 1836, with, vii. 527. September 29, 1837, with, vii . 538. October 21 , 1837, with, vii. 542.
Sisters of Charity, of St. Joseph, incorporated, vi. 383. Visitation, of Georgetown, incorporated, vi. 383.
Sites, title of, to be examined before purchase of, v. 468. no purchase of, to be made except under some law, iii. 568. sale of, when they become useless, iv. 167, 169, 264 ; v. 611.
Sites, Christopher, pension to, vi. 154. Sitgreaves, Samuel, credit allowed to, vi. 446.
Sizemore, Arthur, and another, lands released to, vi. 441 , 843.
Six Nations of Indians, treaty of October 22, 1784, with, vii. 15. January 9, 1789, with, vii. 33. November 11 , 1794, with, vii. 44. January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550.
Skeel, Amos, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 114. increase of pension to, vi. 85.
Skinner, Abraham, grant of land to, i. 185. Daniel G., accounts of, to be settled,
vi. 913.
George, administrator of, to be paid for a horse, vi. 243.
Ichabod Lord, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 297.
John P., released from a judgment, vi. 882 .
Joseph M. See George Skinner, p. 157.
Solomon, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241. St. John, B. L., rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195 .
Skipwith, Fulwar, expenses incurred by him, to be paid, vi. 15. -, appropriation for advances by, vi. 48.
Skirving, John, payment to, vi . 890, 899. Sky, Peter, an Indian, pension to, vi . 835. Slack, Joseph, pension to , vi. 90. Slacum, George W., appropriation for, iv. 626. Slater, James, pension to, vi. 26.
-, Lemuel, appropriation for, iv. 769.
Slavery, forbidden in certain territories, i. 53 , iii. 548.
Slaves. See also Slave Trade, p. 157. fugitive, i. 18, 302 ; iii. 548. in District of Columbia, ii. 116.
in land ceded by North Carolina, i . 108. coastwise carriage of, ii. 429, 430. stipulation in treaty with Chile that desert-
ers shall be surrendered not to include
slaves, viii. 457.
from Tunis taken refuge in our vessels to become free, viii. 214.
disposition of the indemnity from Great Britain for loss of, v . 601.
Slave Trade, prohibition and punishment of, i. 347 ü 70, 205, 426 ; iii. 450, 532, 600.

158

GENERAL INDEX.

Slave Trade, (continued .) engaging in piracy, iii. 600. president authorized to remit penalty for bringing from Cuba, ii. 549. slaves of persons found to be within the limits of Texas may be brought back, v. 674.
note of acts respecting, i. 347. measures to be taken to suppress, ii. 71,
428 ; iii. 532, 533. appropriations, iv. 302, 425.
importation of, into Mississippi territory, forbidden, i . 550.
onus probandi, when on prisoner, iii. 452. limitation of prosecutions, iii . 453. agent on coast of Africa, iii. 533. bounty on captures, iii. 533. place of trial, iii. 534. not to be prohibited before 1808, i. 14. importation of, into Florida, forbidden, iii.
659, 754.
Slaughter, Francis L., pension to, vi. 67. Philip, account of, to be settled , vi .
391 .
, proviso in Stat. 1828, c. 150, for relief of, repealed, vi. 446.
interest on commutation allowed to, vi . 552. Slaymaker, Samuel R. , to be paid for carrying the mail, vi. 867.
Sleeker, George, pension to, vi . 179. Sloan, Philip, allowance for ransom to, vi. 54. Sloat, John D., to be allowed a credit, vi. 534.
-, appropriation for expenses of, iv. 615 .
Slocum, Frances, annuities to, and to her children and grandchildren, vi . 942.
Sloo, Thomas, $500 to be paid to, vi. 120. Slough, Jacob, released from a balance against
him, vi . 310. -, pension to, vi. 637.
Sluthour, Anthony, pension to, vi. 417. Small, Archibald, authorized to enter land, vi.
642.
John, land title confirmed to, vi. 201. Smally, Isaac, pension to, vi. 417. Smart, Robert, allowance to, for plank, vi. 483.
-, William, pension to, vi. 90. Smith, Aaron, pension to, vi. 25.
" allowance to, for property destroyed, vi. 617. " Adam, Representatives of, to be paid for stone, vi . 761.
Albert J., land patent to issue to, vi. 639. Arnold, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 602.
-, Benjamin, increase of pension to, vi . 68. Campbell, claim of, to be settled, vi. 40 . Christian, pension to, vi. 82. Daniel, land patent to issue to, vi . 640. Edmund, pension to, vi. 25. Gamaliel E., to be paid for labor, & c.,
vi. 798, 892. George, expense of ransom of, to be paid,
vi. 29. Gilbert A., and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 807.
-, Guy W., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 517.
Harriet M., land patent to issue to, vi. 639.
Heber, pension to, vi . 25. increase of pension to, vi. 114.

Smith, Henry, duties remitted to, vi. 44. --, Hugh, Daughters of, authorized to enter land, vi. 374. Isaac, set-off allowed to, vi. 148. Israel, to be credited with payments to troops, vi. 200. --, James, pension to, vi. 26. " allowance to, for a horse lost, vi. 428.
" letters patent to issue to, vi. 702. released as surety of S. Smith,
vi. 757. authorized to enter certain land,
vi. 827.
Jeremiah J., payment to, v. 695. Jesse, and others, claims of, to be exam ined and settled, vi . 634.
John, pension to, vi . 24 , 82, 92, 644. , appropriation for expense of inquir-
ing into conduct of, ii. 468. accounts of, to be revised, vi. 287. A., payment to, iv. 739. G., preemption right granted to, vi.
527.
W., appropriation for, iv. 697. Joseph, prize money to be paid to, vi . 310, 331.
pension to, vi. 417. Josiah, increase of pension to, vi. 76. Josias, increase of pension to, vi. 92. Leonard, allowed pay of lieutenant, vi. 811.
Louisa L., land patent to issue to, vi. 639.
Luther L., authorized to enter land, vi. 561.
Maria G., land patent to issue to, vi. 639.
" Martin, pension to, vi. 544. Matthew and Darius Gates, joint ac-
count of, to be settled, vi. 72. " Moses, increase of pension to, vi. 93. " Nathan, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi . 867.
Nathaniel P., and another, duties to be refunded to, vi. 880.
Noah, pension to, vi. 296. Parsons, pension to, vi. 631. Peleg, pension to, vi. 90. Peter, pension to, vi. 73.
Widow of, his pension to be paid to, vi. 666.
Philander, Heirs of, land claim confirmed to, vi. 890.
Reuben, duties remitted to, vi. 15. Richard, and another, register of brig Hope, allowed to, vi. 458.
and others, allowance to, vi. 475. Colonel Richard, Executor of, credit to be allowed to, vi. 629.
Robert, pension to, vi. 24, 655. -, Samuel, authorized to enter land, vi. 677, 689.
sureties of, released , vi . 757.  Simeon, pension to, vi. 726.
Stephen, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 618. -, Thomas, payment to representatives of, i. 447.
Thomas H., and Son, claim against, to be compromised, vi . 495.
and Town, drawback allowed to, vi 751. -, Walter, appropriation for, iv. 513.

GENERAL INDEX.

159

Smith, William, to be discharged from prison , vi . | South Carolina, (continued.)

192.

jurisdiction of Mount Dearborn ceded to,

-, relinquishment of land by, to

iv. 364.

be cancelled, vi. 452.

South Carolina Railroad Company,

Hooker, Representatives of, al-

authorized to import certain pipes and ma-

lowance to, vi. 731.

chinery free of duty, v. 727.

T., allowed to enter certain Spafford, Amos, pension to, vi. 81 .

land , v. 715 .

-, grant of a preemption right to,

Smithsonian Legacy,

vi. 166.

prosecution of claim for, v. 64. investment of, v. 267, 465.
appropriation for expense of prosecution ,

9 Eliphalet, pension to, vi. 765. Horatio Gates, letters patent to issue
to, vi. 502.

v. 207.

Spain,

appropriation of, v. 346. Smoot, Benjamin S., to be paid for property de-

appropriation to carry into effect treaty of October 27, 1795, i . 459 ; ii . 66, 120, 269.

stroyed, vi. 466. Smuggling,

act to carry into effect the treaty of August 11, 1802, with, ii. 270.

by fraudulent invoice, i. 42, 169, 677 ; iii . 436, 734 ; iv. 274.

provision as to Spanish vessels arriving in distress, ii. 314.

by importation without paying duty, i. 677, 678.

act to carry into effect the treaty of February 22, 1819, iii. 637.

buying smuggled goods forbidden, iii . 782. from adjacent territories, iii . 781 .

president to take possession of Florida, iii. 637.

by false entry, i . 661 . general provision , i. 678 ; v. 565.

commissioners to be appointed, iii. 639. adjudication of claims, iii. 768.

Smyth, Harold, account of, to be settled, vi. 230. Richard, to be credited with money of which he was robbed, vi . 253.

stock created, iv. 33.
act to carry into effect treaty of February 17, 1834, v. 34. commission created to examine claims,

Snead, Captain Charles, Representatives of, allowance to, vi . 730 .

v. 34, 35. limitation of, extended, v. 179.

Sneed, Richard, judgment against, suspended, vi. 893.
, judgment against, to be compromised, vi. 921.

tonnage duty on Spanish vessels , iv. 578.
Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Naviga tion, with, October 27, 1795 , viii. 138.
Note of the treaties between the United

Snell, Job, pension to, vi. 24. Snodgrass, Captain, and Company, appropria-
tion for expenses of, vi. 815. Snow, Aaron, claim of, to be settled , vi . 503.

States and Spain, viii. 138. Article 1. Peace established, viii. 138.
Art. 2. Southern boundary line of the United States, dividing their territory

Abner, pension to, vi. 75. " Elisha, Jr., allowance to, vi. 322. " Mary, pension to, vi. 855.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 416.

from the Spanish colonies of East and West Florida, established, viii. 138. Art. 3. Commissioners to run the boundary
line , viii. 140.

 Silvanus, pension to, vi. 24.

Art. 4. The Mississippi to be the western

Snuff, duties on, (obsolete,) i. 384, 426 , 438, 495, 509, 608 ; ii. 54.
Snyder, Abraham, allowed the benefit of the

boundary, and the navigation thereof secured, viii. 140. Art. 5. How each nation shall conduct

act for the relief of debtors, vi . 287.

with Indians in their respective territo-

Soileau, Noel, land claim confirmed to, vi . 329. Solicitor of the General Land Office, appoint-

ries, viii. 140. Art. 6. Each nation to protect the vessels

ment, &c., of, v. 111 , 662.

of the other in their jurisdiction , viii. 142.

Solicitor ofthe Treasury, appointment and duties, iv. 414.

Art. 7. No embargo allowed. In cases of seizure for debts or crimes, how to pro-

Solis, Juan and Manuel, land claims confirmed

ceed, viii. 142.

to, vi. 499, 500. Somers, Captain Richard, resolution respecting

Art. 8. Vessels forced into port by stress of weather to be relieved, viii . 142.

loss of, ii. 347. Soper, Amos, rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195. Sorin, Joseph, land title confirmed to, vi. 679.

Art. 9. Property taken from pirates to be restored, viii. 142.
Art. 10. Vessels wrecked and foundered

Sorrell, Francis, and others, bond of, to be cancelled, vi. 376.

to be relieved, viii. 142. Art. 11. Settlement of the estates of de-

Sothoron, James F., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 675.
Souder, Charles, and another, to be paid for expenses, vi. 791.
Southall, George W., released from a bond by part payment, vi. 895.

ceased persons, viii . 144. Art. 12. Vessels suspected shall exhibit
passports and certificates, viii. 144.
Art. 13. In case of war, one year allowed to merchants to remove, viii. 144 .
Art. 14. No citizen of either nation shall

-, Peyton A., sureties of, to be released , vi. 895.
South Carolina,

take a commission from a foreign power
to arm privateers against the other, viii. 144 .

assent to acts of, ii . 357, 549 ; iii . 331 , 683. adjustment and settlement of the claims
of, iv. 499

Art. 15. Liberty of trade in enemy's ports secured. Free ships make free goods,
excepting contraband , viii. 146.

160

GENERAL INDEX .

Spain, (continued .)

Spain, (continued . )

Art. 16. What articles shall be deemed

January 24 , 1818, null and void, viii.

contraband, viii. 146.

258 .

Art. 17. Regulations respecting passports and sea- letters, viii . 148.
Art. 18. Vessels shall exhibit passports to

Art. 9. Reciprocal renunciation of claims. Renunciation of claims for transactions
in the Floridas. Satisfaction by United

ships of war, viii. 148. Art. 19. Consuls, viii. 150. Art. 20. Courts of justice to be open to
citizens of each nation, viii. 150. Art. 21. Compensation to be made to citi-
zens of United States for illegal captures
of vessels by Spanish subjects. Commissioners to ascertain the same, viii.
150.
Art. 22. Mutual commerce between the nations to receive extension and favor.
Spanish permits to citizens of the United States to dispose of goods at the city of New Orleans, viii. 150. Art. 23. Ratifications to be exchanged in
six months, viii . 152. A Convention with, for Indemnifications for
Losses, August 11 , 1802. Ratified by the United States January 9, 1804, and

States for injuries to the inhabitants of Florida, viii . 258. Art. 10. Convention of August, 1809, annulled, viii. 260. Art. 11. United States to satisfy claims of their citizens to the amount of five millions of dollars. Three commissioners to
be appointed to decide upon claims. Commissioners to take an oath, & c. Commissioners may hear and examine on oath, & c. Spanish government to furnish documents, &c. Records of pro-
ceedings, &c., to be deposited in department of state. Copies to be furnished to the Spanish government, if required, viii. 260 , 262.
Art. 12. Treaty of 1795 confirmed, with exceptions. Neutral flag to cover enemy's property, where , viii. 262.

by the king of Spain July 9, 1818, viii. 198 . Article 1. A board of five commissioners to be appointed, viii. 198. Art. 2. Commissioners to take an oath , viii. 198. Art. 3. Commissioners to meet and sit at
Madrid to receive claims, & c . , viii. 198. Art. 4. Commissioners may examine any
question on oath , viii. 198.

Art. 13. Sailors deserting to be delivered up on proof, & c. , viii. 262.
Art. 14. United States certify that they receive no compensation from France for claims provided for in this treaty, viii 262.
Art. 15. Spanish vessels laden with Spanish productions admitted into Florida without higher duties than vessels of the United States, for twelve years, viii. 262

Art. 5. No appeal from the commissioners. Awards to be paid in specie , viii. 198.
Art. 6. Rights founded on claims originat-

Art. 16. Treaty to be ratified, and ratifications exchanged, viii. 264.
Ratification by the king of Spain of the

ing from excesses of foreign cruisers, reserved by each party, viii . 200. Art. 7. Convention effective on exchange
ofratifications, viii. 200.

treaty of February 22, 1819, viii. 264. Grants in favor of the duke of Alagon, the
count of Punon Rostro, and Don Pedro de Vargas, annulled, viii. 266.

Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits,
with, of February 22, 1819, October 29, 1820, viii . 252. Notes of decisions of the supreme court in

Copy of the grants annulled by the treaty, viii. 267 , 268, 269, 270 , 271 , 272, 273.
Convention for the Settlement of Claims bctween the United States and Her Catholic

cases arising under this treaty , viii. 252. Article 1. Firm and inviolable peace and
friendship, viii . 254. Art. 2. His Catholic majesty cedes the
Floridas. What things are included in the cession, viii. 254. Art. 3. Boundary line west of the Mississippi, according to Mellish's map of January 1, 1818. The use of the waters of
the Sabine, Red River, and Arkansas, common to both nations. Territorial
renunciations corresponding with the boundary line, viii. 254. Art. 4. Commissioner and surveyor to be

Majesty, February 17, 1834, viii. 460. Article 1. Agreement by Spain to indemni-
fy the United States. The sum of twelve million reals vellon to be paid, viii . 460. Art. 2. The interest to be paid in Paris,
half yearly, viii. 460. Art. 3. All claims on Spain granted prior
to the date of this convention to be can-
celled, viii. 460. Art. 4. List of claims to be delivered to
the Spanish minister, viii. 462. Art. 5. Ratifications to be exchanged with-
in six months, viii. 462. Translation of the form or model of the in-

appointed by each party to run the boundary line, viii. 256.

scription of the debt assumed by Spain, viii. 462.

Art. 5. Free exercise of religion in the Spalding, Josiah, pension to, vi . 25.

ceded territories, &c ., viii . 256.

Samuel, and another, claim of, to be

Art. 6. Inhabitants of the ceded territories

settled, vi. 308.

to be incorporated into the Union, &c. , Sparks, Orson, and another, allowance to, for

viii. 256.

horses lost, vi . 405.

Art. 7. Spanish troops to be withdrawn,

-, Richard, land claim of, when to be en-

and possession given within six months

tered, ii. 401.

after exchange of ratifications, viii . 258. Spaulding, Ebenezer , patent fees to be returned

Art. 8. Grants of land before the 24th of

to, vi. 670.

January, 1818, confirmed , & c . Owners Spears, Dixon , authorized to exchange land, vi

to fulfil the conditions Grants since

472 .

GENERAL INDEX .

161

Spears, Joshua, pension to, vi. 417.

St. Regis Indians, treaty of January 15, 1838,

Speed, Jumes, pension to, vi. 26.

with, vii. 550.

Spellman, Oliver, to be discharged from prison, St. Vincent Post, relief of inhabitants of, i.

vi. 184.

318.

Spence, Robert T., credit to be allowed to, vi . 900.
Spencer, Peleg, allowance to, for horses lost, vi . 557 .
Spicer, Jeremiah and Travers, payment to be made to, vi. 185.
Spies, in army, ii. 371 . in navy, i. 712 ; ii. 47.
Spindles. See Buoys, p. 20. Spirits, Wines, &c. See Collection of Duties, p.
33.
importation and entry regulated , i . 658, 659, 660.
drawback on distilled spirits, iii. 640. deposit for duties, i . 673 ; iii. 469, 515. fraudulent embezzlement of, deposited, iii.
469.
in casks, of what capacity, i. 207, 270, 701 ; iv. 235, 373.
Spitfathom, John, claim of, to be settled, and allowance to, vi. 718.
Sprague, Cæsar, pension to, vi. 24. James, authorized to enter land, vi.
457.
ii. 712. and Joshua, grant of land to, -, Joseph E., to be paid for professional
services, vi. 456. Seth, allowance to, vi. 209.
Sprigg, Samuel, land patent to issue to, vi. 443. Thomas, to be paid for his rope walk de-
stroyed, vi. 155.
Springfield Manufacturing Company, account of, to be settled and paid, vi . 863.
Squirrel, Amariah, payment to, vi. 479. " Jacob, account of, to be settled , vi.
479.

St. Vincent Orphan Asylum, incorporated, vi. 453. grant of land to , vi. 512.
St. Vrain, Felix, Heirs of, grant of land to, vi. 556 .
Staff, general acts respecting organization of, (obsolete,) ii. 819 ; (in force, ) iii. 297, 426.
See Army, p. 7. Medical Department, p. 111. Purchases, p. 144.
Stafford, Aaron, pension to, vi. 190. increase of pension to, vi. 234.
Stage-Drivers. See Post-Office, p. 137. Stagg, Daniel, pension to, vi. 177. Staley, George, authorized to exchange land, vi.
556.
Noah, authorized to exchange land, vi. 557.
Stamps, establishment of stamp office , (obsolete,) ii. 40, 109. superintendent of stamps, ii. 40 ; office abolished, ii. 148. duties, (obsolete , ) i . 527, 536, 545, 622 ; ii. 40, 109 ; iii. 77, 148, 253. further time for stamping bonds , &c ., iii. 779.
penalty for writing on unstamped paper, (obsolete,) i. 530, 623 ; iii. 78.
compromise with banks and bankers for
duties on their bills, i. 530 ; iii . 78, 80, 148.
rate of duty, i. 527, 622 ; iii. 77. post stamping, ii. 41 , 110 ; iii. 79, 779. repeal, in 1802, offormer acts, ii. 148. unstamped paper not to be evidence, iii.
79.

Sroufe, Sebastian, Heirs of, authorized to enter

former acts repealed in 1817, iii . 401 .

land, vi. 781 .

Standing Mute, provided for, i . 119 ; iv. 118.

St. Anne, Church of, land confirmed to, vi . 315. St. Augustine, Street in, to be widened, vi.
607.
land granted to, iv. 202. St. Charles, Missouri, land relinquished to, iv.
435 .
St. Clair, Arthur, allowance to, for expenses, vi. 16, 94. -, pension to, vi. 200. -, County, Illinois, school lands in, to be located, vi. 810.
St. Cyr, Francis, pension to, vi. 646. St. Domingo, intercourse with, suspended, (ob-
solete,) ii. 10, 351 , 421 .  appropriation for support of fugi.
tives from, vi. 13. St. Ferdinand, Missouri, land relinquished to,
iv. 435.
St. Genevieve, Missouri, land relinquished to, iv. 435 .

Staniford, Captain Thomas, credits allowed to, vi. 297.
Stansbury, Lieutenant John, regret of congress for loss of, iii. 246.
Stanton, Aaron, and another, allowance to, for flour, vi. 378. Edward, increase of pension to, vi. 84.
Stark, Caleb, payment to be made and land warrant issued to, vi. 388. John, pension to, vi. 26. -, Major- General John, pension to, vi. 216.
Nathan, and others, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 807.
Solomon, increase of pension to, vi. 93. Starkey, Josiah, penalties remitted to, vi. 128. Starr, John, grant of land to, vi. 43.
-, William, increase of pension to, vi. 84. Starring, Henry, pension to , vi. 416.

St. Germain, Martial, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.

St. John, John, pension to, vi. 75.

St. Louis, Missouri, land relinquished to , iv. 435.

St. Marks, Florida, town established at, iv. 664. sale of lots in, iv. 664, 665, 727.

St. Pierre, commercial intercourse with, v. 748.

VOL. VIII.

21

Starritt, Preston, to be paid for corn, vi. 806. Stasca, Steamboat, appropriation for services of,
vi. 813.
State Bank of Wisconsin, charter of, disaffirmed, v. 310.
State Courts and Magistrates, jurisdiction conferred on, under laws respecting ships and seamen, i . 132, 133 ; iv. 160.

162

GENERAL INDEX.

State Courts and Magistrates, (continued .) under revenue laws, i. 375, 378, 380, 400 , 532 ; ii. 354, 489 ; iii. 186, 244. under acts respecting Indians, i. 473 ; v. 680. See Indian Affairs, p. 87. respecting remission of fines, i. 506 ; iii. 244. to procure attendance of witnesses in cases of contested elections, i. 537. to bind over to keep the peace, i. 609. under post-office laws, i . 740 ; ii. 603 ; iv. 113 ; v. 738. of offences against the currency, ii. 405.
fines and penalties generally, v. 322. State Department,
department of foreign affairs, to be called department of state, i. 68.
duties of secretary of,

Steamboats, (continued.) See also Steam Engines and Boilers, p. 162. regulation of, v. 304, 626. for navy. See Nary, p. 120. penalty on officers, &c., of, for injuries from their negligence, v. 306 . signal lights on, v. 306. iron tiller ropes, v. 306, 626. safety valve to be opened on stopping, v 305.
regulations on the lakes, v. 305, 306, 626. coal on board of, on arrival to be exempt
from duty, v. 288. Steam Engines and Boilers,
acts for the regulation of, v. 304, 626. improvements in, to be tested, iv. 728 ; v.
252, 261, 585. board for examination of, generally, .
252.

to keep and affix the seal, i. 68, 69. to record the laws, i. 68. to publish the laws . See Laws, p . 100 . to procure the state statutes, i. 97. clerks in, i. 68, 126. See Clerk, p. 31. messenger in , iv. 42. salaries of librarian, translator, and disbursing agent in, v. 26. salary of superintendent and watchmen in, v. 523.
reports from. See Reports, p. 146. office hours, v. 112.
provision for absence, &c. , of secretary, i. 281 , 415.
State Laws, rules of decision in courts of United States, i. 92.
how authenticated, i . 122 ; ii . 298. health laws enforced, i. 474, 619. assented to by congress. See the titles of
the respective states. Statements. See Reports, p. 146. States,
admission of new, into the Union , i . 19.

Steam Packet Company, incorporated, vi. 398. Stearns, Catharine, allowance to, for her right
of dower, vi. 374.
-, John, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 291.
Stebbins, Alford. See Peggy Mellen, vi. 263. Steel, Elizabeth, husband's pension to be paid to,
vi. 649.
James, pension to, vi. 649.
pension of, to be paid to his daughter, vi. 703.
William, letters patent to issue to, vi. 502.
Steele, David, pension to, vi. 3. James, and others, purchase money to be
refunded to, vi. 765. John, account of, to be settled, vi. 56. -, appropriation to discharge a judg.
ment against, vi. 241. 9 Richard W., bounty allowed to, vi. 361.
authorized to enter land, vi. 497.
Steinback, I. L., debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

republican form of government, guaran- Stephens, Sutten, release of land to, vi. 797.

tied to the, i. 19.

Stephenson, Benjamin, authorized to locate

prohibitions on the states, i. 17.

land, vi. 269.

for provision respecting particular see their titles.
Stationery, of congress, iii. 249 ; v. 526. of the departments, v. 526.
Statistics,

states,

Sterns, Charles, pension restored to, vi. 417. Samuel, pension to, vi. 90.
Sterret, Lieutenant, resolution respecting bravery of, ii. 198.
Stetson, Amasa, interest for advances allowed to, vi. 298.

purchase, &c., of books of, iii. 464 , 537 ; iv. 260, 321, 613.
collection, &c., of, iii. 541 , 719 ; v. 507. Staunton, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi.
115 .
Steads, Richard, pension to, vi. 74.
Stealing. See Theft, p. 168. records , i. 115. goods, &c., i. 116. of public property, i. 116. of property of Bank of United States, iv. 120.

Steuart, A. L., debentures to be paid to, vi. Robert, 187.
Steuben, Frederic William de, to adjust and satisfy claims of, vi. 2.
Stevens, Aaron, pension to, vi. 74.
Ebenezer, and another, allowance to, vi. 287.
James, pension to, vi. 645.
John, to settle the pay and depreciation of pay of, vi. 4.
Jonathan, increase of pension to, vi. 114.

Steamboat Company of Nantucket, claim of, to be settled, vi . 882.

L., certain duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 .

Steamboats, enrolment and license of, ii. 694 ; iv. 129 ; v. 304. mails in, authorized, ii . 805 ; iii . 221 , 496.

Thomas Holdup, and others, $2000 to be paid to, vi. 518.
Stevenson, Captain, and Company, claims of, to be settled, vi. 875.

entry and clearance of, regulated, iii. 396. registry of, when owned by corporations,
iv. 129.

Edmond, increase of pension to, vi. 180.
Frederick P., pension to, vi. 190

GENERAL INDEX .

163

Stevenson, William W. , authorized to enter land, | Stoddard, Daniel, increase of pension to, vi.

vi. 752.

638.

Stewart, Aaron, pension to , vi. 177.

Henry, land patent to issue to, vi. 639.

"" Abner, credits to be allowed to, vi. Stoddart, Daniel, pension to, vi. 516.

283 .

Philo, increase of pension to, vi . 115.

Captain Charles, and Officers, medals to Stokes, James L., permitted to complete a pur.

be presented to, iii. 341 ; vi. 181 .

chase of certain land, vi. 764.

prize money to, iii. 301 , 480. Finley, pension to, vi . 33.

William B., claims of, to be settled, vi. 665.

Hugh, claim of, to be examined and paid , vi. 876 .
Jacob, pension to, vi . 649. John, duties remitted to , vi. 3. Joseph, and his Associates, donation and

Stoker, Henry, authorized to locate lands, vi. 784. Stone, Bannister, released as surety of A. Car-
ruth, vi. 388. -, Benjamin F. , fine to be refunded to, vi. 639 .

release to, vi. 175. -, payment to be made to, vi. 184 .
Susannah, papers to be delivered to, vi. 249 .
William, excess of purchase money to

Hannah, pension to, vi . 580. -, Henry, and another, allowance to, for property destroyed, vi . 821.
Major A., claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

be refunded, vi. 550. Stickell, Valentine, pension to, vi . 417.

Stopinal, Widow, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500 .

Stickney, Benjamin F. , claim of, to be settled, vi. 625.
Stienman, John, and others, claim of, to be settled, vi. 345.

Storer, Dorothy, allowance to, vi. 437. " interest allowed to , vi. 524.
Captain G. W., payment to, for expenses, iv. 626.

Stigermire, Hiner, authorized to enter land, vi. Stores,

757.

for goods imported , how rented, v. 432.

Stiggins, George, and another, lands released

for army and navy. See Purchases, p.

to, vi. 441 .

144.

Stiles, Aaron, increase of pension to, vi. 115. Stothart, William, penalties remitted to, vi. 128.

David, allowance to, vi. 918.

Stout, Aaron, authorized to enter land free of

1 John S., to be compensated for vessels sunk, vi. 326.
and others, memorial of, referred to third auditor, vi. 552.

cost, vi. 781. -, Henry, and others, allowance to, vi. 565.
John, pension to, vi. 417. N., account of, to be settled and

-, payment to, for bread delivered, vi. 667.
Stillman, Samuel, pension to, vi. 25. increase ofpension to, vi. 124.
Stills, duties on, i. 204 , 268, 494 ; iii. 369 ; iv. 44 .
Stillwell, Harold, John, and Joseph, land patent to issue to, vi. 498. ---, Joseph, Heirs of, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

paid, vi. 88, 109.
Samuel, prize money to be paid to, vi. 672. Strahan, Gregory, grant of land to. See Refu gees, &c., vi. 363.
Strain, Robert, to be paid for rifles impressed, vi. 312.
Street, Joseph M. , and another, judgment against, to be discharged, vi. 515. -, appropriation for, iv. 707.

Stilson, Abner, to be paid for services, vi. 627. Stipp, Abraham, land scrip to issue to, vi. 777.

William W., to be paid for use of steamboat, vi. 884.

Stirling, Sarah, Widow of Lord Stirling, grant Streshly, Thomas and William, accounts of, to

of money to, vi. 4.

be settled, vi. 109.

Stobie, Robert Lowe, authorized to obtain a pat- Stretch, Joseph, appropriation for, iv. 407.

ent right, vi. 159.

Striking Foreign Minister, i. 118.

Stock. See Public Debt, p. 144.

Strong, Harriet, allowance to, vi. 404.

treasury notes may be changed into, v. 614.

Levi, pension to, vi. 577. Nathan, duties remitted to, vi. 15.

Stockbridge Indians, claims of, to be settled, vi. Strother, Benjamin, allowance to, for expendi.

244 .

tures, vi. 22.

partition of land reserved for, v. 645, 777. to be citizens of United States, v. 647. treaty of December 2, 1794, with, vii. 47.

-, pension to, vi. 91.
George F., accounts of, to be settled , vi. 699.

treaty of January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550. Stryker, Barent, allowance to, for carrying the

treaty of September 3, 1839, with, vii.

mail, vi. 883.

580 .

Stuart, Phebe, pension to, vi. 229.

cession by, vii. 580. emigration of, vii. 580, 581. payment to, for cession, vii . 580, 581. Stocker, Samuel, pension to, vi . 24.

Stubbs, John G. , account of, to be settled , and his expenses paid, vi. 201 .
Studley, John, and others, forfeiture to be refunded to, vi. 603.

Stockman, Henry and Peter, confirmation of Stull, Frederick , pension to, vi. 417.

land claim of, suspended , vi . 383.

John 1., vi. 381.

Stockton, Lucius W., payment to, iv. 551.

Sturgeon, Robert, to be released from imprison.

Richard C. and Lucius W., claims of,

ment, vi. 40.

to be settled, vi. 665.

Sturges, Benjamin , pension to, vi. 25.

- Robert F., expenses of suits to be al-

increase of pension to, vi

lowed to, vi. 288.

84 .

164

GENERAL INDEX.

Sturges, Solomon, authorized to enter land in | Supreme Court, (continued.)

lieu of other, vi . 786, 926.

appellate jurisdiction of, i. 18.

Sturgess, J. S. , allowance to, vi. 918.

from circuit court, on error or appeal,

Submarine,

i. 84 ; ii. 244 ; iii. 481 ; v. 393, 539,

battery, to be tested, ii. 569 ; v. 584.

658.

telescope, to be tested, v. 667. Subornation,

on division of opinion , ii. 159. from state courts, i. 85.

of perjury, i. 116.

from territorial courts, ii. 338 ; iii. 752 ;

how indictment framed, i . 116.

iv. 81 , 165. See Appeals, p . 5.

Subpana,

from district courts, i. 78, 81 ; iii: 598 ;

for witnesses, into what districts to run, i. 335.

iv. 192. from courts in District of Columbia.

in case of depositions, i. 88 ; iv. 197. contempts of, punished, iv. 199, 200. Subscription, to Folwell's Journals of Congress, i. 755. to Bioren and Duane's edition of Laws, iii.
129.
to Little and Brown's edition of Laws, v. 798.
to state papers, iii. 259. to work on statistics, iii. 464 ; iv. 260, 613. Sub-Treasury, act establishing, v. 385 ; repealed, v. 439.
Sugar, refined, duties and drawback on, (obsolete acts,) i. 384, 495, 509 ; iii. 35.
in force, iii. 338, 640.
appropriation to procure a manual and apparatus for testing, for use of customhouses, v. 641.
in what vessels may be imported , i. 701.
Sugart, Eli, pension to, vi. 417. Suits,
how removed from state courts , i. 79, 80 ; and see iii. 198, 233 , 396.
consolidation of, iii. 21. Sullivan, Daniel, land claim confirmed to heirs
of, ii. 800. James B., authorized to complete a
land purchase, vi. 905. -, Mary, claim of, to be settled , vi. 209.
Summerl, Joseph, drawback allowed to representatives of, vi. 390.
Summers, Joseph, allowed to withdraw entries of land, vi. 191 .
Sumpter, Henry, Heirs of, authorized to relinquish and enter land, vi. 630. Thomas, accounts of, to be settled , vi. 747 .

See District of Columbia, p. 52. from decisions respecting public
ground in Washington, iii. 693. judges of, entitled to use of library of con-
gress, ii. 786.
duties of chief justice of, in relation to the mint, i. 250 ; ii. 111.
as commissioner of sinking fund . See Sinking Fund, p. 157.
seal of, i. 187. reports of, iii. 376, 768 ; iv. 205 ; v . 545. power of, to make rules. See Rules of
Court, p. 151. justices not to attend more than one term
of circuit court in any district annually, v. 676 printing for, how done, v. 690. one judge to attend annually at Washington on first Monday of August, to make orders, ii. 156 ; repealed, v. 322. times and places of session, i . 73, 621 ; ii. 156 ; iv. 160 ; v. 676. removal in case of contagious sickness, i . 621 .
oaths ofjustices, i . 76. allotment of circuits, i. 253, 333 ; ii. 157,
158, 244, 471 ; v. 178, 507. adjournment of, i. 76, 620 ; iv. 332. compensation ofjustices, i . 72 ; iii. 484. precedence ofjustices, i. 73. issues offact in, to be tried by jury, i. 81. power to issue writs, i. 81 , 334 ; iii. 595. for regulations as to practice, see Prac-
tice, p. 140 ; and as to process, see Process, p. 141. For other topics, see the respective titles. power to make rules, i. 83, 335 ; v. 518, 539.

Superintendent, general, of supplies, (obsolete acts,) ii . 816 ; iii. 81, 366.
at Springfield and Harper's Ferry, iii. 323 .

Surety, for good behavior, i. 609.
on custom -house bonds, priority of, i. 676. Surgeons. See Medical Department, pp. 111 ,
112.

of Indian affairs at St. Louis, iii. 683 ; and see Indian Affairs, p. 87.
of military stores, i . 352 ; ii . 61 , 733, 816 ; iii. 366.
of stamps, ii. 40, 148. of public buildings , ii. 175.
Supersedeas, of execution, i. 85 Supervisors, of revenue, i. 660 ; ii . 244. Supplies. See Purchases, p . 144. Supreme Court,
organization of, i. 17, 73 ; ii . 156 ; iv. 332 ; v. 176.

Surget, Peter, Catharine, and Charles, Repre· sentatives of, authorized to locate land, vi 509.
Surplus Fund, appropriations unexpended for two years to be carried to, i. 437. exception of appropriations for war and navy departments, iii. 689. exception of the annual appropriation of $200,000 for militia, iii. 320. unexpended appropriations in war and navy departments to be carried to, iii. 567.

repealed act of 1801 , ii . 89, 132. number ofjudges, i. 73, 421 ; v. 176. how many constitute a quorum , i. 73 ;
ii. 156 ; v. 176. precedence ofjustices, 1. 73. original jurisdiction of, i. 17, 80

$1,500,000 to be carried to, from an appropriation for improvement of the navy, v 234.
Surplus Revenue, distribution of, v. 55, 207. suspended, v. 201.

GENERAL INDEX .

163

Surveyor, Revenue Cutter, claims of the master | Sweden, (continued .)

and crew of, to be settled, vi. 168.

Art. 8. This liberty extends to all kinds of

Surveyors,

merchandise except contraband, viii. 64.

of public lands . See Lands, Public, p. 95. of customs, i. 642 ; iii . 582 ; and see Offi-

Art. 9. What goods shall be deemed contraband, viii. 64.

cers ofthe Customs, p. 44. appropriations for. See the general ap-

Art. 10. What goods shall not be deemed contraband, viii. 66.

propriation bills.

Art. 11. In case of war, ships to be fur-

Surveys, of public lands. See Lands, Public, p. 95. of sea-coast. See Coast, p. 31.

nished with sea-letters or passports, viii. 66. Art. 12. Vessels shall exhibit their sea-

for canals. See Canals, p . 23.

letters and passports. No contraband

for roads. See Roads, p . 148. of the main post road from Maine to Geor-

may pass, viii . 66, 68. Art. 13. Mode of proceeding if contraband

gia, with scientific observations, ii. 732. of the water of Chesapeake Bay, iii . 476. of tributaries to the Mississippi, iii. 480. hydrographic, of the lakes, v. 431 . Susan and Polly, Brigantine, duties remitted to owners of, vi. 14.

goods are discovered, viii . 68. Art. 14. Goods found in an enemy's ship
liable to be confiscated , unless put on board before the declaration of war, or within six months, viii. 68. Art. 15. Vessels of war and privateers shall

Sussetor Indians,

do no injury ; if they do, punishment

treaty of July 15, 1830, with, vii. 328. treaty of November 30, 1836, with, vii.
527.
Sutherland, James, and Wife, seven years' half-

and restitution, viii. 68, 70. Art. 16. Persons fitting out privateers to be
answerable by bonds for damages, viii. 70.

pay to be paid to, vi. 676.

Art. 17. Recaptured vessels, viii. 70.

Sutlers, in army, ii. 363, 366. Sutton, James, grant of land to, ii. 281.
Suzone, Française, allowance to, in full payment, vi. 583 .
Swain, Elizabeth, pension of her husband to be paid to, vi. 657.

Art. 18. Regulations in case both nations should be at war with a common enemy, viii. 70.
Art. 19. Ships of war and privateers may bring prizes into the ports of either party, viii. 72.

Swallow, Larned, pension to, vi . 607, 666. Swan, Sarah, and another, seven years' half-
pay allowed to, vi. 663.

Art. 20. In case of shipwreck, relief to be given, viii . 72.
Art. 21. Vessels forced in by stress of

Swan Creek Indians, treaty of May 9, 1836 , with, vii. 503.

weather, viii. 72. Art. 22. In case of war, nine months to be

Swartwood, Joseph, arrears of pension to be paid to, vi. 611 .

allowed to citizens and subjects to sell and transport their effects, viii. 72, 74.

Swartwout, Robert, allowance to, vi. 239. General Robert, judgment against,

Art. 23. Citizens of neither party to take commissions or letters of marque to serve

to be paid, vi. 261.

against the other, viii. 74.

Swazey and Folsom, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 .

Art. 24. Vessels arriving on the coast of either party, how to be treated, viii. 74.

John N., duties to be repaid to, vi . 241. Sweden,
ships of, discriminating duties repealed as to, iv. 2.

Art. 25. How ships are to be treated if met
by ships of war, viii. 74. Art. 26. Consuls, &c. , to be allowed in the
ports of each nation, viii . 74.

claim of, for injuries at St. Bartholomew,

Art. 27. Ratifications, viii. 76.

to be paid, iv. 625.

Separate Article, viii. 76.

Treaty of Amity and Commerce with, of

Separate Articles, viii. 76.

April 3, 1783, viii . 60. Article 1. Peace and friendship between

Article 1. The king of Sweden to protect vessels and effects of citizens of the

the two nations, viii. 62.

United States, viii. 76.

Art. 2. Neither party to grant favors to other nations, that shall not become common to the other party, viii. 62.

Art. 2. The United States to protect vessels and effects of subjects of Sweden, viii. 76.

Art. 3. Subjects of Sweden entitled to the same privileges in the United States as

Art. 3. In case of war at sea, ships of war to protect and assist vessels of each na-

the most favored nation, viii. 62. Art. 4. Citizens of the United States enti-

tion, viii. 76. Art. 4. Regulations to transact business,

tled to the same privileges in Sweden as the most favored nation , viii. 62.

by the citizens or subjects of one party, in the dominions of the other, viii. 78.

Art. 5. Liberty of conscience secured, viii. 62.

Art. 5. No vessel to be searched, unless in case of fraud. Regulations in such

Art. 6. Citizens and subjects may dispose

cases, viii. 78.

of their estates, may inherit, and may remove their effects, viii. 64. Art. 7. Liberty to either party to trade with a nation at war with the other. Free
ships make free goods, except contraband, viii. 64.

Treaty with, of September 4, 1816, viii. 232.
Article 1. Reciprocal liberty of commerce. Complete security of merchants and traders, viii. 232.
Art. 2. No other or higher duties, & c.,

166

GENERAL INDEX .

Sweden, (continued . ) than the same articles would be subjected to, if they were the production or manufacture of any other country. No prohibition on exportations or importations which does not extend to all other

Sweden, (continued . ) the ports of the contracting parties Consuls, &c., to act as arbitrators in certain cases, viii. 352.
Art. 14. Consuls, & c. , authorized to require the assistance of the local authori-

nations. Equalization of duties as to the vessels and cargoes of other nations, & c. Equalization of duties extended to the
colony of St. Bartholomew, viii. 232. Art. 3. Not ratified , viii . 234. Art. 4. Not ratified, viii. 234. Art. 5. Consuls, &c. Proceedings against
consuls, &c., offending against the laws. Archives, & c., of the consulate to be inviolate. Consuls and their deputies to have the right to act as judges, &c. Limitation of the right. Right reserved to the parties under consular decisions, viii. 236.
Art. 6. Not ratified, viii . 236. Art. 7. Vessels and cargoes may enter
ports, &c., on paying pilotage, &c. Limitation of this privilege, viii. 238. Art. 8. Vessels may land part of their cargoes, and proceed with the remainder, on paying a portion of the duties, & c. Exception as to vessels, viii. 238.
Art. 9. Rights and privileges of entrepôts, viii. 238.
Art. 10. Regulations in case of shipwreck, viii. 238, 240.
Art. 11. Quarantine regulations, viii. 240. Art. 12. The treaty of Paris, concluded in
1783, revived in part. Exception as to the effect of the revival of the treaty of
1783 in relation to other powers, viii. 240.

ties. Deserters to be placed at the disposition of the consuls, &c. Proceedings in case of crime on the part of the deserter, viii. 352, 354. Art. 15. Shipwrecks, viii. 354. Art. 16. Quarantine, viii. 354. Art. 17. Certain articles of the treaty of April 3, 1783, revived, viii. 354. Art. 18. Blockades, viii . 356.
Art. 19. Treaty to continue in force for ten years, viii. 356.
Art. 20. Treaty to be ratified within nine months, viii. 356.
Separate Article, viii. 356. Provisions relative to the 8th, 9th, and 10th
articles of the present treaty, viii. 356. Sweeny, Doyle, appropriation for, ii. 826.
-, John, pension to, vi . 153. Sweet, Amos, and others, claim of, to be settled
and paid, vi . 389. --, Godfrey, pension to, vi. 33. Sweetman, James, pension to, vi . 898. Swift, Socrates, pension to, vi. 178. Swiler, John, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
Swine, importation of, for breed, i . 699. Sykes, Jesse, pension to, vi. 629.
- Samuel, pension to, vi . 417. Sylph , United States Schooner, allowance to rel-
atives of officers, &c ., of, vi. 549. Sylvester, Nathaniel, letters patent to issue to,
vi. 318.

Art. 13. Stipulations concerning blockades, Syme, John, payment to be made to administra-

viii. 240.

tor of, vi. 562.

Art. 14. This treaty to endure for eight years after the exchange of ratifications, viii. 242.
Treaty with Sweden and Norway, of July 4, 1827, viii. 346.
Article 1. Navigation and commerce, viii. 346.
Art. 2. Swedish and Norwegian vessels, &c., to be treated as national vessels . Reciprocal as to American vessels , viii. 346.
Art. 3. Imports, viii. 348. Art. 4. Exports, viii. 348. Art. 5. Stipulations to be applicable to
American vessels proceeding to St. Bartholomew, viii . 348. Art. 6. Not applicable to coastwise navigation, viii. 348.
Art . 7. No preference to be granted in regard to importations, viii. 348, 350.
Art. 8. Tonnage duty, viii . 350. Art. 9. No restriction to be imposed by ei-
ther party upon importations and the products of the soil, viii. 350.
Art. 10. All privileges oftransit, drawback, &c., to be mutual, viii. 350.
Art. 11. Vessels entering a port, and not wishing to unload, not to pay duties, viii. 350.

Symmes, John Cleves, acts respecting grant of land to, i. 266. bounds, i. 251 , 267 ; same act, vi. 7. letters patent to issue, i . 266. preemption right granted to purchasers from, ii. 112, 179, 280. establishment of an academy, i . 267 ; ii. 226. extension of time of payment, ii. 237, 280 . sale of lands reserved for support of religion in his purchase, iv. 618. expenses allowed to, i. 286.
Sympson, James, land title confirmed to heirs of, vi. 869.
Sype, Christopher, pension to, vi. 417. Sypert, William L., pension to, vi. 179. Syren, Brig, prize money to officers and crew
of, iii . 480.
T.
Taber, Cyrus, land sale confirmed to, vi. 749. Taft, Nathaniel, to be discharged from prison,
vi. 183.
Tagert, Samuel, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 812. Taggart, William, pension to, vi. 24. Tailer, Edward N., and another, claim of, to be
examined, vi. 718.

Art. 12. Vessels unloading a part of their Talbot, Edward Allen, letters patent to issue to,

cargoes, not to pay duties on the re-

vi. 381.

mainder, viii. 350, 352.

--> David J., land patent to issue to, vi. G60

Art . 13. Consuls, &c., to be admitted into Talbotts, John Q., pension to , vi. 180.

GENERAL INDEX.

167

Tall, Elijah, payment to be made to , vi. 185. Tallman, John, increase of pension to, vi. 124. Talmage, Stephen, pension to, vi. 645. Talman, John, increase of pension to, vi. 124. Tamarois Indians, treaty of September 25,
1818, with, vii. 181.
Tandehetse, an Indian, pension to, vi. 417. Tandy, Willis, pension to, vi. 153. Taney, Augustine, claim of, to be paid, vi. 525. Tannehill, Wilkins, claim of, to be paid, vi. 431 . Tanner, Lemuel, authorized to locate land, vi.
613.
Tapp, Vincent, pension to, vi. 100. Tappan, John, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305. Tarbell, William, increase of pension to, vi. 93. Tare, at custom-house, i. 671 .
Tariff, of duties. See Duties on Imports, p. 55. Tarr, Jonathan, and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 641 .
Tash, Oxford, pension to, vi. 80. Tate, David, release of land to, vi. 323.
allowance to, for forage impressed, vi. 345.
Tatton, Phillis, pension to, vi. 865. Tatum, Nathaniel P. , account of, to be exam-
ined, vi. 642.
Ta-wa-ka-ro Indians, treaty of May 26, 1837, with, vii. 533.
Taxes, Direct, obsolete acts for valuation and assessment
of lands, i . 580, 626 ; ii . 4, 71 , 80, 124 , 310.
clerks to be employed, ii. 111. assent of congress to act of Tennessee , re-
specting, iii. 123. in District of Columbia, iii. 216. jurisdiction of state courts under acts re-
specting, iii. 244. obsolete act for compensation of officers, i.
591 ; ii. 139 ; iii. 239.
obsolete acts for assessment and collection of, iii . 22, 164, 239, 252, 302, 392, 441.
obsolete acts, laying land tax, i . 597 ; ii. 138, 262, 316 ; iii . 53, 94 , 164, 230, 255, 302 .
time of redemption of lands sold for, extended, iii. 442, 575, 649, 776 ; iv. 168, 263.
evidence of sale of lands perpetuated, iv. 190.
Tares, Internal. See Dutics, Internal, p. 56 Taylor, Cornelius, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 787. -, Eliphalet, pension to, vi. 24. Francis and Judith, seven years' half-
pay allowed to, vi. 600. George, allowance to, vi. 918 Grant, pension to, vi. 154. James, claims of, to be settled , vi. 540. -, pension to, vi. 649.
June, and Children, payment to, vi. 620. John, pension to, vi. 113.
See William Smith, vi . 452. pension to, vi. 543. commutation of half-pay to heirs of, vi. 588. -, grant of land to, ii. 712. and others, bond of, to be cancelled , vi. 806 . Brickwood, value of a certificate to be paid to, vi. 507. Jonathan, balance due, to be paid, vi . 333.

Taylor, Jonathan, payment to, vi . 419. and M'Neal, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 172. Nathan, pension to, vi. 74. Commodore Richard, pension to, vi.
185.
Richard, pension to, vi. 58. Captain Richard, pension of, to be paid to his representatives, vi. 362.
, allowance to, for pension, vi . 376.
exempted from operation of act 1828, ch. 2, vi. 409.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 26. Thomas, Jr., allowance to, for services, vi. 331.
W., to be paid for a horse, vi. 798.
Thornton, account of, to be settled and paid, vi. 676.
Tilford, authorized to exchange land, vi. 754.
William, allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
R., claim of, for interest, to be settled, vi. 711.
Tazewell, William, allowance to, vi . 40. Teal, Nathaniel, to be paid for work, vi. 713. Teas, William, commutation of half-pay to, vi.
589.
Teas, Spirits, and Wines, entry and importation of, i . 654, 655, 658, 659, 660, 674. deposit provided for, i . 674 ; iii . 469, 515. obsolete acts, i . 168, 376.
Teeton Indians,
treaty of July 19, 1815, vii. 125. treaty of June 22, 1825, vii. 250.
Tefft, J. K., released from a judgment, vi. 853. Telegraph. See Magnetic Telegraph, p. 108 . Telfair, Mary M., and another, land warrants to
issue to, vi. 829.
bounty land to be granted to, vi. 931 .
Temple, Josiah, pension to, vi. 81. Tender,
in American coin, i. 250, 300. in foreign coin. See Coins and Currency,
p. 32. states prohibited from making any thing
but gold and silver a legal tender, i. 15. as to value of American coins, see Coins,
32.
Ten Eyck, Henry, pension to, vi. 68. increase of pension to, vi.
77.
Tennell, George, pension to, vi. 91 . Tennessee, State of,
admission into Union, i. 491 . district court in, i. 496. See District Courts,
50. offences in what district court cognizable ,
i. 617. assent to act of, respecting direct taxes, iii.
123. laws extended to , i. 496.
authorized to grant land in the Salt Lick reservation, vi. 779.
other provisions as to lands within . See Lands, Public, p . 94.
consent of congress to compact of, with Kentucky, respecting boundary, iii. 609.
pay of volunteers from, v. 150.

168

GENERAL INDEX .

Tennessee River, improvement of. See Navi- | Thayer, Simeon , pension to, vi. 12.

gation, p. 120. Tennille, Francis, allowance to representatives
of, as an indemnity for a land claim , vi . 410.

Theft , of public records, i. 115. of private property, i. 116 ; iv. 116. of public property, i. 116.

William A., allowance to, for services, vi. 521.

ofbank property, iv. 118, 119. concealment of, iv. 116.

" pension to, vi. 530.

in navy, i. 711 , 712 ; ii. 48.

Tennison, Samuel, payment to, vi. 185. Terre aux Boeufs, Inhabitants of, land claims
confirmed to, vi . 498.
Terrell, Joel, pension to, vi. 139. Territories,
establishment and government of, ordi-

Theobald, Francis R., fine to be refunded to, vi 640.
Therese, Marie, land title confirmed to representatives of, vi. 271.
Theus, Simeon, to be paid for bad bonds, vi. 449.

nance of 1787, i. 51, note. north-west of Ohio River, i. 50, 285 ; ii.
350.
south of Ohio River, i. 123, 285. See particular territories.

Thibault, John B., Heirs of, entitled to exchange land, vi. 529.
Thistle, Hezekiah L., to be paid for a horse killed vi. 859.
Tholozan, John Elie, land claim of, to be exam.

apportionment of representation in, v. 670. district attorney and marshal in, ii. 806. general provision as to jurisdiction of su-
perior courts of, ii. 338.

ined, vi. 571. Thomas, an Indian, pension to, vi. 305.
Charles, appropriation to pay accounts of, v. 265, 698.

general provision as to delegates from, iii. 363.

 Israel, pension to, vi. 896. James, accounts of, to be settled, and

settlement of accounts for disbursements for, v. 541.

allowance made to, vi. 468 . claim of, to be settled, vi. 679.

for provisions respecting particular territories, see their titles.
laws of, to be printed annually, v. 541 . power ofcongress over, i. 19. Tervin, Richard, certificate of land granted to, conditionally, vi . 99.

Thomas, Jesse B. See Cahokia, vi. 242. " Joel, land claim confirmed to, vi. 532. John, accounts of, to be settled, vi.
266.
five years' pay allowed to, vi. 540.

Tevebaugh, Jacob, land claim confirmed to heirs of, ii. 800.

and Company,to be paid for flour, vi. 301.

Teste, of writs, i. 93, 123, 275. Testimony. See Evidence, p. 60.
P. 47. Texas,

Depositions,

H., land claim confirmed to, vi. 488.
-, Joseph S. , claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 155.

running and marking boundary of, v. 312, 487.

Judith, Widow of John, five years' half-pay allowed to, vi. 585.

persons found to be within the limits of,

General Philemon, authorized to enter

allowed to bring back their property, v. 674.
resolution for the annexation of, to the

land, vi. 592. 9 Pierre, land claim confirmed to, vi.
499.

United States, v. 797.

Thompson, Lieutenant- Colonel Alexander R. ,

convention of April 11 , 1838, with, respect-
ing reclamations for certain injuries, viii. 510.
convention of April 25, 1838, with, respecting boundary of, viii. 511.
Thacher, James S., settlement of accounts of, v. 665.

claim of, to besettled and paid, vi. 806, 904, 942.
" Amos, pension to, vi. 723. 9 Benjamin, grant of land to, vi. 43.
James, certain debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.
John, account of, to be settled and

Thacker, Reuben, pension to, vi. 190.
Thames, resolution respecting the victory of, iii. 476.

paid , vi. 108. interest to be allowed to, vi.
208.

Thanks of Congress,

to British officers for efforts to save steam-

558 .

to be paid for materials, vi.

er Missouri, v. 720. See also names of particular persons.
Thanksgiving for Peace, president requested to appoint a day of, iii . 250.
Tharp, William, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 354.
accounts of, to be settled, and allowance to, vi. 476.
indemnified for endorsing a draft, vi. 548.
claim of, for a fee paid, to be examined , vi. 717.
Thatcher, Stephen, allowance to , vi. 329. Thayer, Lieutenant- Colonel, settlement of ac-
counts of, iv. 704.

Jr., to be paid for services as clerk, vi. 572.
allowance to, for services, vi. 798 .
B., land warrant to be issued
to, vi. 65, 66. Manlius V., payment to, vi . 923. Mary W., allowance to, in full for
her claim, vi. 869. payment to, vi . 904. claim of, to be settled, vi.
942. Nathaniel, pension to, vi. 178. Samuel, to be paid for blankets, vi
558.

GENERAL INDEX .

169

Thompson, William, pension to, vi. 349. " allowance to, for money
paid, vi. 371. Thooft, Barnard, debentures to issue to, vi. 299. Thorne, James, and others, interest allowed to,
vi. 562.

Tonnage Duties, (continued .) sels ofthe United States are not allowed
to trade, iii. 344, 369. repealed as to American vessels, two thirds
of the crew of which are Americans, iv. 425.

Thorndike, Hezekiah, pension to, vi . 123. Thornton, D. M. F., credit allowed to, vi. 942.
Colonel John, claim of, for pay, to be settled, vi. 533.

repealed as to vessels of nations which do
not impose countervailing duties, iv. 425. on vessels on Mississippi , ii. 182. on American ships, with officers and two

Presley, pension to, vi. 33. Three Sisters, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed
to owners of, vi. 569.

thirds of crew not citizens, iii, 352. on coasting vessels, with three fourths of
crew citizens, iii. 351,

Thruston, Algernon S., credit allowed to, vi. 548.
Charles Mynn, pension to, vi. 68.

on ships not so manned, iii. 351, 352.
on French ships, iii. 605, 641 , 681 , 747. how paid, i. 675, 676 ; ii. 182.

Thurbur, Ezra, and others, allowance to, for damages, vi. 406.
Tibbs, Joseph, allowed to withdraw a land entry, vi. 200.
Tice, John, grant of land to, vi. 615. Tiers, Cornelius, allowance to, for losses, vi.
811.
Tiffany, Philemon, pension to, vi. 417. Sylvester, pension to, vi. 805.

suspended as to certain foreign countries, iii . 224.
remitted on certain French vessels from
Cape Francois, i. 342, 410. acts respecting discriminating duties on
vessels of the following nations :Norway, iv. 206. Portugal, iv. 517. Spain, iv. 578, 741.

Tifft, Amasa A., pension to, vi. 612. Tilden, John, Widow, &c., of, limitation in Stat.
1816, c. 65, § 3, extended to, vi. 792. Tilford, James, claim of, to be settled, vi. 622. Tilton, John, increase of pension to, vi. 234.
Sylvester, pension to, vi. 111. Timber, Navy. See Navy Timber, p. 122.

Sweden, iv. 206. See also Discriminating Duties on Tonnage,
p. 48. Tonnage of Ships,
how ascertained, i . 55, 675, 676. annual account of domestic and foreign,
iii. 541.

Timberlake, John B., credit for money over- Tongue, James, allowance to, for property de

drawn allowed to, vi. 228.

stroyed, vi. 866.

Tingle, George E., to be paid for services, vi. Tools of Trade, exempt from duty, i. 661 ; iii

507.

782 ; v. 560.

Tinkham, Ebenezer, pension to, vi. 24.

Topp, John, to be paid for wood, vi. 310.

increase of pension to, vi. Topographer, in the general post-office, v. 175,

83.

265.

Tinsley, Jonathan, pension to, vi. 82.

Torpedo, appropriation to test, ii. 569.

Tippett, Stephen, authorized to enter land, vi. Topographical Engineers, ii. 819.

459.

Torrance, Thomas, pension to, vi. 26.

Tipton, Jonathan, allowance to indemnify, vi. Torrey, Joseph, commutation of half-pay to rep-

837.

resentatives of, vi. 590.

William, arrears of pension to be paid

W., allowance to, for services,

to, vi. 434.

as an attorney, vi. 494.

Tobey, Daniel, donation to, vi. 191.

Torreyre, John, grant of land to, vi 43.

Todd, Charles, to be paid for a wagon, horses, | Totten, Benjamin J., to be paid for services as

and tobacco, vi. 171 .

lieutenant, vi. 886.

Isaac, release of land to, vi. 905.

Toulmin, John B., land claim confirmed to, vi.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 112.

460.

allowance to, for schooner, vi . Tousard, Lieutenant- Colonel Lewis, an equiva

372.

lent for his pension allowed, vi. 15 ; i. 394.

-, Henry, and others, allowed to complete

allowance to, vi. 47.

entries for drawback, vi. 413. Hiram, land sale confirmed to, vi. 749. Thomas, land patent to issue to, vi. 787.
Tolbortt, William D. , allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.

Toutant, Jacques, land claim confirmed to, vi. 500.
Tower, Benjamin, pension to, vi . 26. increase of pension to, vi.
124.

Tolly, John and Thomas, payment to, vi. 185. Tomiton, Jasper, pension to, vi. 112. Tomlinson, Jabez, grant of land to, vi . 41. Tompkins, Daniel D. , account of, to be settled,
vi. 280.
" $35,190 to be paid to, vi . 290.
-, $60,239 to be paid to, vi. 319.
Ton, weight of, at custom-houses, v. 567.
Tonnage Duties, obsolete acts, i . 27, 69 ; repealed , i . 136. acts in force, i . 135, 136 ; iii. 314, 344, 351.

Town, Elisha, overpayment to be refunded to, vi. 749.
Townsend, Isaiah, and others, credit to be allowed to, vi. 439. William, to be paid for an anchor, vi. 327.
Townsley, Thomas F., allowance to, for damages on certain drafts, vi. 622.
Towson, Nathan, allowance to, vi . 481. Tozier, William, pension to, vi. 566. Trabuc, Daniel, pension to, vi. 654.
Trade with Enemies, prohibited, (obsolete,) ii. 778 ; iii. 195, 196.

on foreign vessels from ports to which ves- | Trading Houses. See Indian Affairs, p. 87

VOL. VIII.

22

170

GENERAL INDEX .

Trahaud, Jean Marie, Heirs of, land claim con- | Treasury, Department of the, (continued.)

firmed to, vi. 431 .

warrants for money for war and navy de

Transcript, from treasury, when evidence . See

partments, i. 280 ; iii. 688.

Evidence, p. 60. Copies, p. 40.

territorial accounts to be settled at, v. 541

Tramell, Dennis, pension to, vi. 754.

in actions against corporations, their debt-

Transfers, of appropriations generally . See Appro-

ors may be summoned in as garnishees, iii. 443.

priation, p. 6.

unexpended moneys to be carried to sur-

of army appropriations. See Army, p. 8.
of navy appropriations. See Navy, p. 121.'
of post-office appropriations. See PostOffice, p . 138:
Translator, in state department, pay of, v. 26. Trask, Primus, pension to, vi. 725. Travers, Jeremiah, Matthias, Samuel, Henry K.,
and Robert, payment to, vi. 185. Traverse, Mathias, pension to, vi . 652.
-, Samuel, and Crew, to be paid, vi. 168 .
William, to be paid for cattle, vi. 790 .
Traversie, Joseph, appropriation for, ii. 120. Travis, Melancthon W., rifle to be presented to,
iv. 195.
Treadwell, Daniel, pension to, vi . 81 . Treason,
offence of, punished, i . 112. misprision of, i. 112. in what it consists, i. 18. Treasurer of the United States, office established , i. 65. duties of, i. 66, 280 , 610 ; iii. 367, 688.
respecting Indian department, iii. 487. respecting the navy pension fund, ii.
293 .

plus fund. See Surplus Fund, p . 164. advance payments from, iii. 723. remission of forfeitures by, i. 506 ; ii. 7 ;
iii. 617, 739 ; iv. 597 ; v. 322, 653. See Fines, p. 62. settlement of accounts with, i . 441 , 616 ; ii. 535, 817 ; iii . 366, 487, 688, 723, 770. warrants from, against delinquent debtors, iii. 592.
Treasury Notes, obsolete acts, ii . 766, 801 ; iii. 100 , 158, 161 , 213, 675. payment ofthose lost, iii. 479. repeal offormer acts, iii. 377. acts in force, v. 201 , 323, 370, 411 , 469, 581 .
re-issue of, v. 228, 370, 469, 614. interest on, v. 474, 614. stock to be issued in lieu of, v. 614.
Treasury, Secretary of the. See Secretary, p. 154.
Treaties, how made, i. 17. how published, i. 187. agent under British, of 1794, i. 523 adjustment of claims under British treaty of Ghent, iv. 219, 269. See the names of the different foreign countries.

pay of, i. 65, 281 , 730 ; ii. 152 , 250, 456, 713 ; iii. 309.
rooms to be provided for, v. 385. to be credited with unavailable funds, v.
178.
bonds of, v. 386, 439. Treasurer of the Mint. See Mint, p. 115. Treasury,
statement of receipts and expenditures to be published, i. 15 See Reports, p. 145.
money not to be drawn from, except according to law, i. 15.
fiscal year of, defined, v. 536. certain rooms and vaults declared to be the

to be the supreme law, i. 19. Tregal, Roger, payment to be made to, vi . 185. Trenholm, George A., forfeitures to be refunded
to, vi. 919. Trent, John, pension allowed to, vi. 33. Trial by Jury,
in civil cases, i . 77, 80, 81 . in criminal cases , i . 88.
in what districts, i. 695. in admiralty cases, i . 77, 80. in equity cases, i. 80. constitutional provisions as to, i. 21. Trickell, Emanuel, confirmation of land claim of, suspended, vi. 383.

treasury, v. 385, 386, 439.

Trimble, Joseph, pension to, vi . 578.

building for the, v. 115, 172, 346, 377, Triplett, Peter, arrears of pension to be paid to,

429.

vi. 610.

solicitor of, iv. 414.
regulation of deposits of public money, v. 52, 115.
settlement with United States Bank, v. 56. independent, v. 385, 439. agent of, iii . 592.

Thomas, five years' pay allowed to, with interest, vi. 544.
Jr., claim against, to be compromised, vi. 874.
T., to be paid for services, vi. 759.

Treasury, Department of the,

Tripoli,

establishment and regulation of, i. 65, 279 ;

protection of our commerce against, ii. 129,

ii. 535 ; iii. 366, 487 , 567 , 688.

291 .

officers in. See their respective titles. clerks in, i. 68, 215, 281 ; iii . 146 ; iv.
416.
officers in, forbidden to trade, & c., i. 67, 215, 231 , 419.
provision for absence, &c. , of secretary of the treasury, i . 67, 281 , 415 .
forms of accounts to be prescribed by, i. 281 .

resolutions respecting the attack on, ii. 346, 347.
thanks of congress to the Danish consul at, ii. 410.
monument to officers who fell in the war with, iv . 462.
Treaty of Peace and Friendship, of Novem ber 4, 1796, viii. 154.
Article 1. Peace under the guaranty of

office hours, v. 112.

the dey of Algiers, viii . 154 .

GENERAL INDEX .

171

Tripoli, (continued.)

Tropical Plants, cultivation of, encouraged, v.

Art. 2. Enemy's goods to be free in ships

302 ; and see Vine and Olive, p. 174.

belonging to the parties, viii. 154.

Trotman, William, claim of, to be paid, vi. 333.

Art. 3. Persons and property in enemy's Trott, Adolphus G., letters patent to issue to,

vessels to be free in case of capture, viii.

vi. 320.

154.

Trouillett, John, land claim confirmed to repre

Art. 4. Passports to be given, viii. 154.

sentatives of, vi. 202.

Art. 5. Condemnation and bill of sale of a Trowbridge, James, pension to, vi. 100.

prize vessel to be available as a passport

for one year, viii. 154.

195.

" rifle to be delivered to, iv.

Art. 6. Vessels putting into ports of parties Truax, Abraham C., accounts of, to be settled

for provisions or repairs, viii. 154. Art. 7. Shipwrecks, viii. 154 . Art. 8. Neutrality of ports, viii. 155. Art. 9. Commerce, & c. , to be on the foot-

and paid, vi. 388. Truby, Samuel, pension to, vi. 178. Trudeau, Charles Levaur, authorized to enter
land, vi. 164.

ing ofthe most favored nations, viii . 155. Trueman, Major Alexander, annual allowance to

Art. 10. Acknowledgment of the receipt

children of, vi . 12, 41.

ofthe price of peace, viii. 155.

appropriations topay

Art. 11. Pretexts arising from religious

that allowance , i . 344, 407, 447, 500, 543,

opinions not to interrupt the state of har-

720 ; ii. 120, 188, 214, 268, 320 , 388.

mony ofthe two nations, viii. 155.

Trumbull, Gurdon, appropriation for, iv. 698.

Art. 12. Disputes between the parties to be decided by reference to the dey of

John, paintings by, for Capitol, iii. 400 .

Algiers, viii. 155. Treaty with, of June 4, 1805, viii. 214.

-, payment to, iii. 502, 561 , 672, 762.

Article 1. Peace and friendship established . Truslow , Benjamin, pension to, vi. 890 .

Privileges in commerce, &c., viii. 214. Trussel, Moses, increase of pension to, vi. 124.

Art. 2. Prisoners to be mutually given up, Trustee Process, against debtors of corporations,

viii. 214.

in favor of United States, iii. 443.

Art. 3. American forces in the province of Truxton, Captain Thomas, gold medal to, ii. 87.

Derne to be withdrawn , viii . 214.

Tschudy, Catharine, preemption right allowed

Art. 4. Free ships to make free goods, viii.

to, iv. 57.

214 .

Tubbs, Annanias, pension to, vi. 93.

Art. 5. Citizens, &c., to be given up, if | Tuck, Edward, pension to, vi. 82.

taken in prize vessels, viii. 214.

Samuel B., to be paid for coal, vi. 916.

Art. 6. Passports to be given to vessels of both nations, viii. 214 .
Art. 7. What shall be a sufficient passport, viii. 215.
Art. 8. Vessels of both nations may touch
at ports of each for provisions, &c. , viii. 215 .

Tucker, Aaron, pension to, vi. 743. Huldah, pension to, vi. 826. James, and another, payment to, vi. 659 Mary, authorized to enter land, vi. 819 ? act for relief of, extended to, vi.
881 .
-, Samuel, pension to, vi. 258.

Art. 9. Proper assistance to be given the Tuckerman , Henry H. , certain duties to be re-

vessels of both nations in distress, viii.

funded to, vi. 471.

215.

-, Stephen, and others, payment to,

Art. 10. Rules as to the time when, and

vi. 456.

the distance at which, an enemy's vessel Tudor, William, Jr., allowance to representa-

may be attacked, viii. 215.

tives of, vi. 760.

Art. 11. Commerce, &c. , to be on the foot- Tuffs and Clark, value of sugars seized, to be

ing ofthe most favored nation , viii . 215.

refunded to, vi. 604.

Art. 12. Consuls of the United States not Tuillier, François Isidore, land claim confirmed

to be answerable for debts of citizens of

to, vi. 429.

the United States, viii. 215. Art. 13. Salutes of vessels of the United

-, John , Heirs of, land claim confirmed to, vi. 432.

States, viii. 216.

Tumey, William, mistake in name of, rectified,

Art. 14. Entire freedom to be allowed in

vi. 463.

religious matters, viii. 216.

Tunis,

Art. 15. Time allowed before an appeal to arms, viii. 216.
Art. 16. Mutual exchange of prisoners in event of war, viii. 216.
Art. 17. Vessels of United States captured

Treaty of Peace with, of August, 1797, March 26, 1799, viii. 157.
Article 1. Peace and friendship established, viii. 157.
Art. 2. Restoration of subjects and goods

by one of the Barbary States, not to be sold, but to be sent away, viii. 216. Art. 18. Disputes to be settled by the consul of the United States, viii. 216. Art. 19. The lex loci to prevail with regard

found in an enemy's vessel, viii. 157. Art. 3. Enemy's goods on board a vessel
of the parties to be free, viii. 157.
Art. 4. Passports to be given, viii . 157. Art. 5. Commander of a convoy to be be-

to homicides committed by a citizen of the United States or a Tripoline, viii. 217. Art. 20. Citizens of the United States dy.
ing in the regency of Tripoli, their property to be saved for their representatives, viii . 217.

lieved upon his word, in order to exempt it from search and quarantine , viii. 157. Art. 6. Nothing to be exacted for visits. Fugitive slaves and prisoners to be re turned, viii . 158 . Art. 7. Prize vessels purchased at Tunis,

172

GENERAL INDEX.

Tunis, (continued . ) how to obtain temporary passports , viii. 158.
Art. 8. Hospitality to be granted to vessels

Turner, Moses, to be discharged from prison, vi. 174.
, Philip, half- pay as captain allowed to, vi. 73.

entering the ports of the parties, viii. 158 .
Art. 9. Assistance to be granted to wrecked vessels, viii. 158.
Art. 10. Neutrality of ports to be enforced, viii. 158.
Art. 11. Salutes, viii. 158.
Art. 12. Privileges of merchants . Tunis-

" Rachel, pension to, vi. 418. 9 Thomas, payment to heirs, &c., of, vi. 224 .
Turney, Abel, pension to, vi. 7. increase of pension to, vi. 68.
Clarissa, pension to, vi . 836. Ellen, pension to, vi. 835. -, Toney, pension to, vi. 90 .

ian subjects freighting an American vessel . Embargoes. Protection of the sub-
jects ofthe parties. Government of Tu
nis inay freight American vessels, viii . 159.

William, pension to, vi . 417, 463. Turnpikes, in the District of Columbia. See
their respective titles. Turrill, Abden, bounty land allowed to mother
of, vi. 202.

Art. 13. Enemy's subjects on board the Tuscarora Indians,

vessels of the parties, in what case they

treaty of December 2, 1794 , with, vii. 47.

shall be made slaves, viii . 159.

treaty of January 15, 1838, with, vii. 550.

Art. 14. Duties to be reciprocally paid, Tuskaloosa, title to lands vested in corporation

viii. 159.

of, vi. 315.

Art. 15. Liberty of commerce, contraband Tuttle, Aaron, increase of pension to, vi . 84.

excepted. Privileges of masters of ves-

James Middleton , conditionally authorized

sels, viii. 159.

to exchange land, vi. 753.

Art. 16. Duty of anchorage, viii. 160.

Joseph, pension to, vi. 652.

Art. 17. Right of having a consul ; his

Levi, pension to, vi . 100.

privileges, viii. 160.

Thaddeus, pension to, vi. 649.

Art. 18. No responsibility for subjects con- | Twichell, Timothy, to be paid for land relin-

tracting debts, & c ., viii . 160 .

quished, vi. 522

Art. 19. Administration of the effects of a Twiggs, David E. , expenses of suit to be paid

decedent, viii. 160 .

to, vi. 515.

Art. 20. Consul's jurisdiction over his Twining, Nathaniel, penalty remitted to, vi. 3.

countrymen, viii. 160.

Twist, Stephen, pension to, vi. 417.

Art. 21. Punishment of personal assaults, Two Brothers, the Owners and Crew of, fishing

viii. 160.

bounty allowed to, vi. 578, 659.

Art. 22. Trial of disputes on civil matters Two Mary's, collector indemnified for seizure of,

between them, viii . 160.

ii. 423.

Art. 23. In case of national differences, Two Sicilies,

accommodation is to be attempted before

treaty of October 14 , 1832, with, viii. 442.

recourse is had to arms, viii. 160. Altered Articles of the Treaty of Peace and
Friendship with, February 24, 1824, viii. 298 . Article 6. Regulation of visits at sea.

See Sicily, p. 157. act to carry said treaty into effect, iv. 666. limitation of time extended, iv. 680.
Two Sons, Schooner, fishing bounty allowed to owner, &c. , of, vi . 606, 895.

Slaves escaping and taking refuge on Tyler, Lieutenant Daniel, reimbursement of, for

board of American ships of war, to be

expenses, vi. 440.

free, viii. 298. Art. 11. Salutes to ships of war, viii . 298. Art. 12. Commerce to be on an equal foot-
ing with citizens of the most favored na-

Henry B., credit to be allowed to, vi. 629.
Joseph, pension to, vi. 32. increase of pension to, vi. 115

tions. Rules as to freight. No captain Tyner, Thomus, to be paid for work, vi. 713.

to be detained against his consent. Pro- Tyson, James, allowed to enter certain land, v.

tection of the citizens of the respective

715.

nations. Preference to Tunisian vessels

for freight, viii. 299. Art. 14. Trade between parties to be on an
equal footing, viii. 300. Tupper, Percia, allowance to, for a barn de-
stroyed, vi. 478.

U.
Ulmer, Philip, pension to, vi. 178. Umbrella Stretchers, remission of duties on, v.
329.

Thomas, claims on account of bills, & c. , | Unclaimed Imports, disposition of, v. 653.

drawn by, to be examined , vi . 634. Turcotte, Francis. See Cahokia , vi. 242. Turkey. See Ottoman Porte, p. 127. Turner, Captain Daniel, appropriation to indem-
nify, iv. 626.
Enoch, pension to, vi . 25. - increase of pension to, vi . 84.
George, allowance to, for expenses, i . 286 .
Henry, pension to, vi. 190. 9 Julius, pension to, vi . 154.

Underwood, John, allowance to, for services, vi. 863.
-, Phinehas, authorized to locate land, vi. 355.
Underwriters, Fraud on, by destroying ships , ii. 290. conspiracy to defraud, iv . 122.
Unincorporated Banks, in District of Columbia, prohibited from issuing bills, iii . 389.
Union Bank,
of Alexandria, iii. 388, 570 , 618, 620.

GENERAL INDEX.

173

Union Bank, (continued .) of Georgetown, ii. 636 ; iii. 570, 618 ; v. 1,
69, 229, 451 . of Maryland, error in claim of, to be cor-
rected, vi . 700. British Ship, Owner, &c., of, indemni-
fied, vi. 394. John, pension to, vi . 90.
United Brethren, Society of, grant of lands to, i . 490, 724 ; ii. 14, 155, 236, 274, 330 ; iv. 56.
United Netherlands. See Netherlands, p. 122. United States, Frigate,
to be fitted out, ii. 514. resolutions respecting victory of, over the
Macedonian, ii. 830. United States, Ship, forfeiture remitted to own-
ers of, vi . 122. United States. See Accounts, Public, p. 1 .
Public Debt, p. 144. executions in favor of, to run into any state,
i. 515.
priority in cases of insolvency, i. 515, 676. what is insolvency, i. 515, 676. judgment on suits of, at first term of court,
i. 677 ; iv. 113. relinquishment of certain captures, iii. 4. University of Alabama, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 383 .
in Arkansas, grant of land for, vi. 360.
Iowa, grant of land for, vi . 810. of Michigan, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 402. authorized to sell land, vi. 615.
Trustees of, authorized to convey land, vi. 628.
-, grant of land to, iv. 180, 370.
Virginia, duties remitted to, vi. 340.
Updike, Daniel, to be discharged from prison , vi. 118.
Uptegraff, Mary, pension to, vi . 775. Urquart, John, appropriation for, iv. 719. Ursuline Nuns, New Orleans, secretary of war
authorized to exchange lands with, vi. 107. Usher, Alice, pension to, vi . 918. Utters, John, pension to, vi. 26. Utter, John, increase of pension to, vi. 93.

Valley Creek Academy, Alabama, Trustees of, authorized to enter land, vi . 398.
Valton, Francis, grant of land to , vi. 35. Valuation of Lands, &c. See Taxes, p. 167.
note of acts respecting, i . 580. Vance, Sally, land warrant to be issued to, vi . 278.
--, Samuel, claim of, to be paid , vi. 333. Van Anglen, John, pension to, vi. 75. Van Buren County, Missouri, grant of land to,
vi. 842.
" Schooner, bounty allowed to owners, &c., of, vi. 642. Van Campen, Moses, five years' full pay allowed to, vi. 719. Van Cleef, John M., forfeiture remitted to, vi. 240. Vander Heyden, Jacob, grant of land to, vi. 43. Vanderlyn, John, appropriation for, v. 173. Vanderslice, Thomas J., allowed to enter certain land, v . 715 . Van Driesen, Joseph S. , pension to, vi. 177.
increase of pension to, vi. 234. Van Gundy, Christian, grant of land to, ii. 282. Vanhorne, Joseph, grant of land to, ii. 281 . Van Kleeck, Lawrence L., account of, to be settled, and allowance to , vi. 474.
Van Ness, Effie, pension to, vi. 873. Van Ranssallaer, Solomon, pension to, vi. 232. Van Voorhis, Daniel, and another, to be paid
for brass butts, vi . 634. Van Wart, Isaac, appropriation for annuity of,
ii. 120. Van Winkell, Abraham, allowed to withdraw a
land entry, vi . 200. Van Zandt, N. B., purchase of statistical tables
of, iv. 260.
Vannettin, Captain John, and Company, pay. ment to, vi. 777.
Vansyckel, Elijah, time of payment extended to, vi. 297.
Varnum, John, pension to, vi . 24. Vasse, Ambrose, amount of an award to be paid
to, vi. 251 . Vasseur, Noel, release of land to, vi. 818. Vattier, Charles, pension to, vi. 735.
Vaughan, George, increase of pension to, vi. 94. James, Executor of, to be paid, vi . 554. John, pension to , vi. 26. claim of, to be settled , vi. 39. Samuel, and others, grant of land to,
vi. 567.

Vaugine, Don Francis, land patent to issue to,

V.

vi. 498.

Vaccination,

Francis, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

encouragement of, (obsolete,) ii . 806 ; iii.

Stephen, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

677.

Vavasseur, Jean, payment for land to be re-

introduction of, among the Indians, iv. 514. Vail, Auron, account of, to be settled , vi. 828.
Samuel, land title confirmed to, vi. 574.
Valecour, Jean B., land claim confirmed to, ii . 800.
Valenzin, David, appropriation for the representatives of, and others contributing to his support, vi. 54. appropriation for, ii. 685.
Valiant, William, land warrant to issue to moth-
er of, vi . 255. Valkenburgh, Bar. J. V. , interest allowed to, vi.
365 . Valle, Francis, and others, release of land to,
vi. 386.
Jean B., authorized to locate land , vi. 747. Vallery, J. Baptiste, claim confirmed, v . 493 .

funded to, vi. 568. Vawters, William, Heirs of, allowed full pay of
lieutenant, vi. 489. Veillon, Etienne, land claim confirmed to, vi . 499 Velez, Manuel, act of 1825, c. 45, extended to,
vi. 413.
Venable, Sarah, bounty land vested in, vi . 349 . Venezuela , act for the relief of, ii . 730.
Treaty of Peace, Friendship, Navigation, and Commerce, with, of January 20, 1836, viii. 466.
Article 1. Peace and friendship established , viii. 466.
Art. 2. Favors to commerce to be common
to both parties , viii . 466. Art. 3. Mutual benefits in trade and resi
dence, viii. 466.

174

GENERAL INDEX .

Venezuela, (continued.)

Venezuela, (continued .)

Art. 4. Equalization of duties on vessels

Art. 33. Consular convention to be formed

and their cargoes, viii. 468. Art. 5. Characteristics of a Venezuelan

viii. 482. Art. 34. Treaty to remain in force f.

vessel, viii. 468.

twelve years. Individuals personally re

Art. 6. Importations and exportations to be

sponsible for infringements. Warnot to

on an equal footing, viii. 468.

be declared until remonstrance is made ,

Art. 7. Citizens of both nations tobe on an

and satisfaction refused. Existing trea-

equality, viii. 468. Art. 8. No embargo without allowing in-

ties not to be affected . Ratification, viii. 482.

demnification, viii. 470.

Venus, John, pension to, vi. 74.

Art. 9. Citizens to be treated as friends in

" Ship, indemnification of owners, &c.,

case of a compulsory resort for refuge or

of, iii. 423.

asylum in the rivers, &c. , viii. 470.

Verjon, Bernard Edme, authorized to obtain a

Art. 10. Captures by pirates, viii . 470.

patent right, vi. 159.

Art. 11. Protection in case of wreck, viii. | Vermont,

470.

admission into Union, i. 191 .

Art. 12. Power to dispose of property within the jurisdiction of the contracting parties, viii. 470.
Art. 13. Protection to persons and property, viii. 472.
Art. 14. Liberty of conscience and rights of worship secured, viii. 472.
Art. 15. Both parties at liberty to trade with those at enmity with either. Free ships to make free goods. Free ships to make free persons. Proviso, viii . 472.
Art. 16. Enemy's property, to be protected

representatives from , i. 191. laws extended to , i. 197, 229 , 324. Vermule, Cornelius, grant of land to, vi. 46. Verplast, Nicholas, pension to, vi. 733. Vesey, North and, duties to be refunded to, vi. 32 .
Vessels, Light. See Lighthouses, p. 102. Vessels. See Ships, p. 156. Viator, Widow, authorized to locate land, vi. 668. Vice- Consuls. See Consuls, p. 40. Vice-President. See President, p. 140.
salary of, i. 72, 318.

by a neutral flag, must be shipped before the declaration of war. Regulations, viii. 474.
Art. 17. Contraband goods specified, viii. 474.
Art. 18. Goods not contraband, as specified in Art. 17, to be considered as free, viii. 474.
Art. 19. Contraband goods, only , liable to confiscation ; and vessels to proceed after the goods are taken out, viii. 474.

Vick, Hartwell, payment for land to be refunded to, with interest, vi. 523.
Vickery, Benjamin, pension to, vi. 82.
Vickroy, William, pension to, vi. 417. Vicksburg,
collector to be appointed at port of, v. 267. pay of, v. 267.
Victorine, tonnage duty on, to be refunded, iv. 573 .
Victory, Schooner, released from a forfeiture, vi. 88.

Art. 20. Notice of blockade . Vessels en-
tering before blockade may quit unmolested, viii. 476.
Art. 21. Examination of vessels at sea, viii. 476.

Vienne, J. R. , claim of, to be paid, vi . 882. M. de, to be paid for service, vi. 225.
Villard, Andrew Joseph, allowance to, vi. 79. Villere, James, claim of, to be settled and paid,
vi. 192.

Art. 22. One of the parties being engaged in war, vessels of the other to be provided with sea-letters , &c ., viii. 476.
Art. 23. Visiting regulations to apply only to vessels without convoy, viii. 478.
Art. 24. Prize courts only to try prize causes, viii. 478.
Art. 25. The neutral party not to accept a commission to cruise against the other, viii. 478.
Art. 26. Time to be allowed, in case of

Villers, Francis Didier Petit de, administrator of, released, vi. 853.
Villiers, Journonville de, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 194.
Vimont, Lewis, grant of land to, vi. 35. Vincennes and Illinois Country,
grant to inhabitants of, i. 221 . adjustment of claims to lands in, i. 221 ; ii.
446, 800 ; iii . 163, 285, 409, 468. Vincennes University, title confirmed to pur-
chasers of land from, vi . 171 .

war between the parties, for removal and sale of property, viii. 478. Art. 27. No sequestrations of money i
bank or public funds to be allowed, viii. 478.
Art. 28. Regulation of official intercourse , viii. 478.
Art. 29. Each party to have consuls, & c ., in cach other's ports, viii . 480 .
Art. 30. Consuls, & c. , must exhibit their commissions, viii. 480.
Art. 31. Immunities of consuls, &c . , viii . 480.

Vincent, Isaac, pension to, vi. 100 . Vine and Olive, acts to encourage the cultiva-
tion of, iii. 374, 667 ; iv. 444, 611 ; v. 154, 302 .
Vineyard, William , pension to, vi. 177. Virgil, Asa, pension to, vi. 26. Virginia Military Land Warrants. See Lands
Public, p. 98. Virginia, State of,
militia fines vested in , iii. 777. payment of interest to, iv. 132.
claims of, iv . 563. acts of, assented to by congress,

Art. 32. Consuls may require the aid of the civil authorities to arrest deserters . Deserters must be sent back within two months, viii. 489.

respecting navigation of the Appomatox River, ii. 152 ; iv. 94.
respecting improvement of James Riv er, ii. 269 : iii. 301.

GENERAL INDEX.

175

Virginia, State of, (continued.) incorporating Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, iv. 101 ; v. 197, 722. concerning the Cumberland Road, iv.
655. Virginia University, duties to be refunded to,

Wahpeton Indians, treaty of July 15, 1830, with, vii. 328.
Wainwright, Henry, duties to be refunded to, vi. 674.
Wait, Edward, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

vi. 340. Vixen, United States Brig, account of the offi-

and Pierce, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

cers and crew of, to be paid, vi. 124. Vleit, Garret, account of, to be settled and

-, Roswell, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 155.

paid, vi. 903.

T. B., and Sons, subscription to their com-

Volunteers in the Military Service, acts authorizing acceptance of, in 1791 , i. 223 ; in 1794, i . 403 ; in 1797, i. 522 ; in 1798, i. 558, 569, 726 ; in 1803, ii. 241 ; in 1806, ii . 383 ; in 1808, ii. 479 ; in 1812, ii. 670 ; iii. 74 ; in 1814 , iii. 98, 115 ; in 1815, iii. 193, 219 ; in 1832, iv. 533 .
pay, rations, forage, and camp equipage of, during war with Great Britain, ii. 797 ; iii. 444.

pilation of state papers, iii. 260. Waite, Horace, and others, fishing bounty al-
lowed to, vi. 367.
Wakelee, John, increase of pension to, vi. 93. Waldo, Edward, pension to, vi. 24. Waldron, Charles, to be paid for property de-
stroyed , vi. 891. Walker, Benjamin, authorized to locate land, vi.
784 .
Dudley, to be paid for advances, vi. 789.

general provisions respecting pay, &c., of, v. 7.

Jeremiah, land title confirmed to, vi. 439.

mounted volunteers in case of hostilities with Indians, v . 32.

George H., authorized to enter land, vi. 850.

Canadian, bounties to, iii. 256, 301 , 393, 641.

John, to be paid for work, vi. 713. -, Peter, and another, Representa-

Von Heer, Major B. , grant of land to, vi. 43.
Von Kapffe and Brune, drawbacks allowed to, vi. 357.

tives, authorized to enter land, vi. 463. Joseph, Representatives of, authorized
to enter land, vi. 463.

Von Schmidt, Peter, allowance to, for a transla-

Kinkle, and Caruthers, account of, to

tion, vi. 935.

be settled, vi. 937.

Voorhees, Philip F., allowance to, for expenses, vi. 699.

" Martha, grant of land to, vi. 43. Peter, Celestino, and another, Represent-

Voorhies, J. and P. , allowance to, for mail car-

atives of, authorized to enter land, vi. 463.

rying, vi . 907. Voorhise, Luke, pension to, vi . 646.

" Samuel, claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 274.

Vorheis, Minne L., pension to, vi. 33. Vose, Edward, pension to, vi. 24. Vought, Godfrey, pension to, vi. 651. Vowel, John C. and Thomas. See Ship Diana,

 claim of, to be paid, vi . 284. " D., drawback allowed to, ví. 582.
Tandy, pension to, vi. 736.

p. 48. Vreeland, Betsey, pension to, vi . 838.

" William, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 721.

Nicholas, claim of, to be settled, vi. | Walkington, George, to be discharged from

238.

prison, vi. 133.

W.

Wall, Benjamin, accounts of, to be settled, and

credits allowed, vi. 138.

Wabash, relief of officers and soldiers in cam-

Noah, land patent to issue to, vi. 498.

paign on, ii. 704.

Wallace, Cesaré, confirmation of land claim of,

Wabash Canal . See Canals, p. 23.
Waddell, William C. H., indemnified for judgments, vi. 594.
Waddle, George, pension to, vi . 904.

suspended, vi. 383. " Jacob, pension to, vi. 652. 1 land claim confirmed to, v.
493.

Wade, Edward, pension to, vi . 26.

Thomas, commutation of half-pay al-

Zebulon, pension to, vi. 515. Wadsworth, Elijah, Representatives of, judg-

lowed to heirs of, vi. 597. Weymouth, pension to, vi. 24.

ments against, to be discharged, vi. 321 . Lieutenant Henry, regret of congress
for loss of, ii. 347. Wages of Seamen. See Seamen, p. 153. Wagon Masters, employment of, in army, ii.
820 ; v. 257.

William, pension to, vi. 75. -, increase of pension to, vi.
76.
Waller, David, pension to, vi . 826. " Henry, claim of, to be ascertained and
paid, vi. 525.

Waggoner, Andrew, pension to, vi. 75.

William, release of land to, vi. 843.

Wagnon, John Peter, five years' full pay allowed Walley and Foster, amount of debentures to be

to representatives of, with interest, vi. 549.

issued to them, vi. 346.

Wagstaff, Samuel, to be paid for a house de- Wallis, George, to be paid for losses by Indians,

stroyed, vi . 478.

vi. 913.

Wahashaw, Tribe of Sioux, treaty of September Walsh, Charles S., allowance to, vi. 755.

10, 1836, with, vii. 510.

John, pension to, vi . 81 .

Wahpacootah Indians,

Walter, George, increase of pension to, vi. 77.

treaty of July 15, 1830, with, vii. 328.

Jacob F., patent fees to be returned to,

treaty of November 30, 1836, with, vii. 527.

vi. 640.

176

GENERAL INDEX.

Walton, Barzillai, Boaz, and Jesse, value of Warehouses, Public, (continued .)

horses of, to be ascertained , iv. 57.

deposit in, to secure reduction of duty

Walton, Jonathan, and another, accounts of, to

under tariff of 1832, iv. 593, 635.

be settled and paid, vi. 586.

how rented, v. 432.

Josiah, pension to, vi . 24.

Warne, Willet, to be discharged from prison, vi.

Walworth, Hiram, rifle to be delivered to , iv.

125.

195.

Warner, Daniel, authorized to enter land free

Wamsly, Captain Jonathan, claims of militia under, to be settled, vi. 164.
War Department, establishment and regulation of, i. 49, 279.

of costs, vi. 772. -, Martin, bounty to be paid to, vi. 202. Peter, authorized to enter land, vi.
805.
Samuel, pension to, vi. 24.

provision respecting absence of head of, i. | Warrant of Distress,

281 , 415.

against delinquent debtors, iii. 592.

officers in. See their respective titles.

against delinquent collectors, iii. 33.

reports from. See Reports, p. 147.

Warrel, Robert, pension to, vi . 190.

care of navy transferred from, to navy department, i. 554.
purchases in. See Purchases, p. 144 . warrants from , how paid , i . 610 ; ii. 535 ;
iii. 367, 689.

Warren, Channel of, to be staked out, i. 553. Warren, Ebenezer T., Children of, moneys to be
refunded to, vi. 513. -, Captain Samuel, commutation of half-
pay allowed to, vi. 719.

additional accountant in , iii . 322 , 366.

9 Uriah, pension to, vi. 189.

clerks of, iii. 322. transfer of appropriations in, ii . 535 ; iii.
390.

" William, pension to, vi. 24. " increase of pension to, vi. 114. -, pension to, vi. 577.

unexpended appropriations for, iii . 567, Warrington, Captain Lewis, gold medal to, iii.

689.

246.

clerks in. See Clerks, p. 31.

Warson, James, pension to, vi. 91 .

plan for building for, v. 758.

Wartsbough, John, bounty, arrearages, &c., of,

oath of persons employed in , i . 24, 50 . War,
with Great Britain , 1812, ii . 755. letters of marque, ii . 755, 759, 792. bounty on destruction of enemy ships, ii.
53, 816.
retaliation of acts of enemy, ii. 829. property destroyed in, payment for. See

to be paid, vi. 357.
Washington, Alexandria , and Georgetown Steam Packet Company, incorporated, vi . 398.
Washington, City of, removal of seat of government to, ii. 55. incorporation of, in 1802, ii. 195. limitation of, ii. 197, 255 ; iii. 543. council of, ii. 196, 197, 254.

Property, p. 142. ransom of captives in , iii. 788.

taxes in, ii. 197, 255. charter amended in 1812, ii. 721.

Warburg, Frederick S., patent right granted to, vi. 277.

name of city, ii. 727. taxes, iii. 485, 486.

Ward, Christopher, pension to, vi. 417. Daniel, and another, proceedings against,
to be relinquished, vi. 770.
--, Ichabod, certificate to be paid to, vi. 496 .

limitation of, ii. 727 ; iii. 543. repeal of former acts of incorporation, iii.
583.
incorporation in 1820 , iii . 583. corporate name, iii. 584.

John, pension to, vi. 153. 1 Kerly, increase of pension to, vi. 93.
Nehemiah, pension to, vi. 566.

mayor of, iii . 584, 585. aldermen, iii. 585, 586, 591. council, iii. 585, 586.

Recs B., conditionally authorized to exchange land, vi. 850.

powers of corporation , iii. 586, 587, 588. jail in, iii. 588.

R. J., exchange of Mississippi school lands, vi. 529.
Samuel, payment of certificate to be made to, vi. 386.
interest allowed to, vi. 450. Thomas, pension to, vi. 33. Warden, William, pension allowed to, vi. 658.

sale of land for taxes, iii. 589, 590 ; iv 75, 76, 77.
levy court not to tax, iii. 590. commissioner of public buildings to re-
imburse part of expense of streets in, iii. 591 ; iv. 186. wards, iii. 591. streets, iii . 591.

Ware, Asa, increase of pension to, vi . 68.

assessment of taxes in, iv. 77.

Elias, pension to, vi. 190 . Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 76. Nathaniel A., authorized to locate land, vi. 508.

subscription of, to stock in Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, iv. 294. tax to pay loan for, iv. 294 , 518.
commissioners, i . 130 ; ii. 175 ; iii. 324.

Warehouses, Public, in case of quarantine , i . 620. deposit of wines, spirits, and teas , in, i. 168 ; iii. 469, 515.

superintendent, ii. 175, 235, 298, 607 ; iii. 315.
surveyor, ii . 235, 298, 512. taxes , ii. 725, 727 ; iii. 589.

fraudulent withdrawal of deposited goods, iii. 470.
deposit in, until entry, iii. 730.

division of squares and lots in, ii. 511 . lotteries, ii. 726, 728 ; iii. 588 ; iv. 205 removal of nuisances, iv. 77.

goods in, to be at expense and risk of owners, iii. 730

peace regulations of, extended to the Capi. tol and square, iv. 266.

GENERAL INDEX.

177

Washington, City of, (continued.)

Was lington, George, (continued .)

subscription to Chesapeake and Ohio Canal

pedestrian statue of, for rotunda, iv. 581.

Company, iv. 294 ; v. 31 , 32. congressional burial-ground, iv. 520. purchase of Washington Canal Company,
iv. 521 , 651. grant of the mall to, iv . 524 , 651 . appropriation to help pay debt, iv. 651 , 701. bills issued by, iv. 742. watch established, v. 511 . longitude of, iii. 648, 673. seat of government to be removed to, i.
130 ; removal, ii. 55. purchase on acceptance of lands in , for
public use, i. 130. loan for use of, i. 461 , 551.
land charged with, i. 461 , 551 .
sale of land to repay, ii . 176. streets and footways in, ii. 55.
public lands, squares may be divided into lots for sale, ii. 513.

appropriations for, iv. 581 , 768. importation and erection of, v. 409,
460.
settlement of H. Greenough's claim for, v. 460.
removal of, v. 485, 642. Library Co., incorporated, vi. 141 . public documents, &c.,
for, iii. 790. Lund, to be paid for services, vi.
925.
Martha, franking privilege allowed to, ii. 19.
William H., to be paid for a house destroyed, vi. 151 . Washington's Manual Labor School, and Male Orphan Asylum, of the District of Colum bia, incorporated, vi . 830. Washington Turnpike Company, acts respecting, ii. 808 ; iii. 503.

improvement and use of open squares, ii. 725.
lease of, ii. 775. sale of lots in reservation No. 10, iii.
346. draining of low grounds, iii . 691. enclosure of public walks between
Maryland and Pennsylvania Avenues, iv. 651. alley at west end of square B, adopted, vi. 794. Maryland Avenue, v. 134. naval monument in, iv. 580. Pennsylvania Avenue, iv. 518, 612.
See also District of Columbia, p. 51 .
Washington, County of, established, ii. 105. levy court in, ii . 771 . county rates, ii . 773 ; iv. 183, 518.
road to lower bridge accepted as a public highway, ii. 569 .
fees of notaries in, iii. 417.

Wasp, prize money to officers and crew of, ii. 818 ; iii. 295.
distribution of wages, on the loss of, iii. 295 .
resolutions respecting capture of Reindeer by, iii. 246.
Wasson, Joseph, pension to, vi. 33. Watchmen, for public buildings, appointment of,
legalized, v. 524. Waterman, William, pension to, vi. 26. Waters, Mary, and another, seven years' half-
pay allowed to, vi. 663. Watkinson, David, and Company, duties to be
refunded to, vi. 902.
Watrous, Richard, pension to, vi. 25. Watson, John, allowance to, for a horse, vi. 405. Watt, Archibald, value of certificates to be paid
to, vi. 537.
Samuel, drawbacks to, vi. 37. Watterston, George, payment of services of, v.
172.

Washington and Alexandria Turnpike Company, acts respecting, ii. 485, 577 ; iv. 17.
Washington Bridge Company, acts respecting, ii. 457 ; iv. 402, 582, 727, 773 .

and Van Zandt, purchase of statistical tables of, iv . 260, 613. Watts, Alexander, pension to, vi. 364.
John H., authorized to exchange lands, vi. 433.

payment to, for injury to bridge, vi. 168. Waugh, Thaddeus, pension to, vi. 81 .

Washington Canal Company, acts respecting, ii. Wayland, James, pension to, vi. 90.

176, 517, 728 ; iii . 691 ; iv. 180, 521 , 651. Wayne, Major-General Anthony, accounts of, to

Washington City Benevolent Society, incorporat-

be settled, vi. 96.

ed, vi. 823.

 appropriation

Orphan Asylum, incorporated,

for, ii. 648.

vi. 381.

Wea Indians,

grant of land

treaty ofAugust 3, 1795, with, vii. 49.

to, vi. 512. County, Arkansas. See Fayette-
ville, vi. 567. Mississippi, reservation of
land for schools in , vi. 685.
Fire Insurance Company, incorporated, vi. 203.
Washington, George, franking privilege of, i. 512, 738. resolutions on the death of, ii. 86, 87. duties on a statue of, remitted, iii. 543 ; iv. 175

June 7, 1803, with, vii. 74. August 21 , 1805, with, vii. 91. October 26, 1809, with, vii . 116. June 4, 1816, with, vii. 145. October 2, 1818, with, vii . 186. August 11 , 1820, with, vii. 209. October 29, 1832, with , vii. 410. Weatherford, John, release of land to, vi. 323. Weaver, David, pension to, vi. 3.
increase of pension to, vi. 92. Jacob, pension to, vi. 633. Thomas. See Norristown and Valley

purchase of books and papers of, iv. 712.

Railroad, p. 124.

Greenough's statue of, v. 409, 460.

Webb, Constant, increase of pension to, vi. 83.

acceptance of sword and camp chest of, v.

Joseph, Jr., pension to, vi . 566.

716.

Josiah H., pension to, vi. 103.

VOL. VIII.

23

178

GENERAL INDEX.

Webb, Josiah H., appropriations for, ii. 409, 410 ; | West Florida, claim of persons in, to be settled,

v. 484, 595, 640.

vi. 139.

Webber, John, to be paid for extra services, vi. West, Thomas, pension to , vi. 724.

560.

Westcott, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi.

Seth, duties to be refunded to , vi. 234.

234.

William, land patent to issue to, vi. Western Railroad, permission to pass through

498.

public lands given to, v. 17.

Webster, Hiram B. , allowed to enter certain Western Reserve of Connecticut,

land, v. 715.

cession of, ii. 56.

Humphrey, pension to, vi. 176.

schools in, iv. 679.

Isaac, pension to, vi. 32.

Westfall, Charles W. , and another, claim of, to

John, account of, to be settled, vi. 147.

be settled, vi. 334.

$264 to be paid to, vi . 261 .

- Nicholas Ferdinand, land granted to,

A., allowance to, for a horse, vi.

vi. 7.

348.

Westner, George, authorized to withdraw entries

pension to, vi. 592.

for land, vi. 157.

Noah, deduction of duty on books to, Weston, (town of,) allowed to enter certain

vi. 330.

land, v. 657.

Weed, Seth, pension to, vi. 73.

West Point,

Weedon, William, authorized to enter land, vi. 571.

purchase of, i. 129. engineers at, ii. 137.

Weeks, Joseph P., penalty remitted to, vi. 95.

boundaries settled, ii. 615, 790.

Weems, Henry, pension to, vi. 112. Weighers and Gaugers,
pay, i. 45, 707 ; iii. 306. appointment and duties of, i. 642, 678.

military academy at, appropriations for, iii. 223, 330 ; iv. 641 , 704 ; v. 72, 151 , 264, 361 , 397, 415, 510, 604, 655, 742.

Weights and Measures, distribution of, v. 133. Welch, David, pension to, vi. 26, 895.

cadets from, toserve eight years, v. 260 instructors in, ii. 720 ; v. 259, 398.

-, Nicholas, increase of pension to, vi. 191 . Oliver, purchase money to be refunded,
vi. 806.
Weld, Edward, to be paid for a lost certificate, vi. 71.

appointment of cadets, v . 606. pay of cadets, ii. 137, 721 ; v. 742. formation and establishment of, ii. 137
720.
chaplain at, iii. 426.

Moses, pension to, vi. 417. Wellborn, Isaac, Jr., and William, release of

to teach geography, history, and ethics, iii. 426 .

land to, vi. 710. Weller, Samuel, to be paid for materials, vi . 898.

rations of superintendent, v. 513. board of visitors at, v. 606.

Welles, Benjamin and John, debentures allowed

forage for officers' horses, v. 66.

to, vi. 522.

Wetherall, Horace, allowance to, vi . 891.

Wellman, Jacob, Jr., pension to, vi. 24. Wells, Asa, to be paid for costs, vi. 194.
-, Bezaleel, moneys to be repaid to , vi. 302. " Benjamin, accounts of, to be settled and paid, vi. 147, 447.

Wever, Casper W., payment to, vi. 883. Weymouth, Dean, allowance to, for service, vi.
311.
increase of pension to, vi. 312 .

Dorothy, land claim confirmed to, vi. 497.

, William W., penalty for importing

 George R., claim of, to be settled, and ex-

slaves remitted to, vi. 95.

penses paid, vi . 210.

Whale Fisheries, acts respecting, i. 60 ; iv. 492 ;

Henry, pension to, vi. 839.

v. 370.

John, account of, to be settled and paid, Whaley, Jonathan, pension allowed to, vi . 25.

vi. 147, 155.

2 Caleb J., pension to, vi. 233.

" Mary, claim of, to be settled, vi. 195.  Samuel, pension to, vi. 101. " Stephen, pension to, vi. 25.
William, right of preemption allowed to, vi. 72.

Wharry, John, judgment against, discharged, vi. 889.
Wharton, Samuel, to be paid for taking census, vi. 292.
Wheat, Eli, released from a judgment, vi. 856.

See Mary Wells, vi. 195. Wayne, to be paid for land, vi. 519. Welty, Abraham, authorized to withdraw entries
for land, vi. 157.

Wheatley, Thomas, allowance to , for a horse lost, vi. 428.
Wheaton, Joseph, interest to be paid to, vi. 166. account of, to be settled, vi.
232 .

Wendal, John H., pension to, vi. 431 .

Wendell, John H., benefit of Stat. 1828, c. 53,

302 .

to be paid for expenses, vi.

extended to, vi. 504. Werner, William, land warrant to be issued to ,
vi. 66.
Wesbrook, Andrew, land patents to issue to, vi. 380.

Wheeler, Joshua, pension to, vi. 364. Samuel, to be indemnified, vi. 175
Whipping, in the navy, i . 709 ; ii. 49. punishment of, i . 116.

Wescott, Joseph, pension to, vi. 176.

abolished, ii. 735 ; v. 322, 517.

West, Anna, pension to , vi . 723.

Whipple, Abraham, pension to, vi . 103.

Baton Rouge, grant of land to inhabitants | Whitaker, Ephraim, benefit of Stat. 1828 , c.

of, vi. 319.

53, extended to, vi . 446 .

Westchester, Ship, new register to issue for, vi. 878.

vi. 501.

 additional pay allowed to

GENERAL INDEX.

179

Whitaker, Ephraim, commutation of half-pay Wickham, William, empowered to improve a

to , vi. 587.

certain fishery, vi. 799.

William W., and others, credit al- Wier, Robert, appropriations for, v. 173.

lowed to, vi. 484.

Wight, A. G. S., released from part of a judg

Whitcomb, Francis, pension to, vi. 24.

ment on payment of balance, vi . 801 .

White, Colonel Anthony Walton, Representatives Wilcox, Joseph, allowance to heirs of, vi. 288.

of, to be paid for advances, vi . 729.

-, Stephen, pension to, vi. 417.

Fielding L., reward to, vi. 437.

Wilde, Lieutenant Richard, allowance to daugh-

George, pension to, vi. 658.

ter of, vi. 636.

Jabez L. and Asa, released from claims, Wilderman, Jacob, to be paid for services as a

vi. 838.

mounted ranger, vi. 435.

Jacob, pension to, vi . 885. James, increase of pension to, vi. 180.

Wiley, David, compensation of, to be paid his wife, vi. 119.

franking privilege to, i. 403. John, continued in office, vi. 1 . Dr. John Campbell, record of naturaliza-

-,`John, authorized to enter land, vi. 752. F., pension to, vi. 897.
Susannah, to be paid for services of her

tion of, to be corrected, vi. 750.

husband, vi. 119.

Jonathan, land warrant to be renewed to, Wilges, William, pension to, vi. 609.

vi. 157.

Wilhoet, Enoch, authorized to relinquish lands,

1 Joseph, pension to, vi. 82.

vi. 535.

M., account of, to be settled, vi . Wilkes, Charles, Jr., to be paid for mathematical

318.

instruments, vi. 415.

Lemuel, pension to, vi. 822. Moses, claim of, to be settled, vi . 50. Robert, increase of pension to, vi. 158.

Wilkeson, James, payment to be made to, vi. 887.
Wilkins, Asa, pension to, vi. 417.

Samuel, pension to , vi. 123.

" Charles, payment to, vi. 419.

increase of pension to, vi . 154.

" interest allowed to, vi. 626.

allowance to, vi. 318. B., increase of pension to, vi. 84.

John, Jr., accounts of, to be settled, vi 407.

Stanley, payment to, vi . 939.

Jonathan, pension to, vi. 74.

Stephen, released from a judgment, vi. 856.
Vassal, pension to, vi . 364.

Robert B., pension to, vi. 24. increase of pension to, vi.
114.

William, pension to, vi. 3.

Wilkinson, Asel, to be paid for extra services,

claims of widow or orphans of,

as a pilot, vi. 575.

to be adjusted, vi. 6. allowance for damages to, vi.
146.

James, to be allowed the compensation of other brigadier-generals, vi. 110.
General James, judgment against,

White- Eyes, George Mongan, appropriation for, i. 185.

to be discharged, vi . 248. -, Jesse, to be paid for costs and ex-

Whitehead, William, duties to be repaid to, vi. 305.

penses, vi . 393. Joseph, Jr., to be discharged from

A., to be credited with ex-

prison, vi. 86.

penses, vi. 729.

pension to, vi. 189.

Whitehorn, John, increase of pension to, vi . 76. | Willard, Alexander, land warrant to be issued

Whitehouse, Joseph, land warrant to be issued

to, vi. 66.

to, vi. 66.

John, and another, balance due, to be

Whiting, Samuel, compensation allowed to, vi. 71 .

endorsed on a judgment, vi. 390. Jonathan, pension to, vi. 24, 69, 140.

Whitman, George, exempted from certain duties, Willcox, Ezra, pension allowed to, vi. 25.

vi. 739.

Richard, patent right to issue to, vi.

accounts of, to be examined,

240.

vi. 876 .

Willett, Edward, interest allowed to, vi. 554.

Whitney, Daniel, payment to, vi. 623.

William, Brig, register to be issued to, vi.

-, Henry, allowance to, for services as

313.

secretary, vi. 579.

Williams, Beverly, pension to, vi. 178.

John, penalties remitted to, vi. 143. -, Seth, pension to, vi . 724.

" Charles, to be paid for two horses, vi . 188.

Whitsitt, James, pension to, vi. 649. --, John, authorized to enter land, vi. 753.
Whittemore, Amos, and William, Jr. , patent right extended to, vi. 80.
Joseph, increase of pension to , vi. 101 .
Whitten, George, pension to, vi. 935.

" Cornelius, pension to, vi. 177. Captain Daniel, Representatives of,
allowance to, vi . 738. " David, appropriations for annuity of,
v. 120. " E. H., payment to, vi. 763. Elie, grant of land to, vi. 36.

Whittier, Simeon C. , moneys to be refunded to, vi. 455.
Whittle, Fortesque, mistakes to be corrected and money refunded to, vi . 709.

Elizabeth, payment to, vi. 446. Eleazar, appropriation for, v. 161.
Flavel, rifle to be delivered to, iv. 195 .

Whittlesey, Samuel, sureties of, released, vi . 255.

Henry, allowance to, for horses lost, vi. 428.

Wickham ,

released from part of a cer-

tain judgment, vi. 770.

Isaac, authorized to reenter land, vi 693.

180

GENERAL INDEX.

Williams, Jacob, increase of pension to, vi. | Wilson, Henry, land entries confirmed to, vi

124.

749.

James, bounty to, vi. 274. released as surety of Henry
Ashton, vi. 840. A., authorized to exchange
lands, vi. 712.
B., allowed to enter certain land, v. 715.
John, pension to, vi . 113. B., pension to, vi. 176. Lee, to be paid for land relin-
quished, vi. 522. R., grant of land to, in satisfac-
tion of claim, vi. 889. -, Mary, authorized to exchange lands,
vi. 810. -, pension to, vi. 888. -, pension to be paid to, vi. 932.
Matthew, pension t, vi. 179. Nancy, pension to, vi. 894. Nathaniel, to be discharged from prison, and credited with $429, vi. 183. Thadeus, pension to, vi. 26.
Thomas, pension to, vi. 153. land warrant to issue to, vi.
304.
increase of pension to, vi . 154.

James, pension to, vi. 305. credit allowed to, vi. 484. Heirs of, release of land to, v.
758.
John, pension to, vi. 26. Administratrix of, authorized to
relinquish lands, vi. 433. to be paid for services, vi. 712. land claim confirmed to, vi. 603.
Heirs of, half- pay allowed to, vi. 537.
Joseph, authorized to enter a preemption certificate, vi. 100.
claim of, to be settled and paid, vi. 165.
-, pension to, vi. 417. Matthew, accounts of, to be settled, vi. 148, 149.
Nancy, pension to, vi. 899.
Robert, pension to, vi. 33. Thomas, account of, to be settled, and expenses paid, vi. 107.
" account of, to be revised, vi. 131, 229.
William, pension to, vi. 189. and Wife, lands released to, vi.
441 .

William, Senior, Representatives of, authorized to exchange land, vi. 810.
T., to be paid for advances to troops, vi. 232. Williamson, Charles, Heirs of, land to be entered for use of, vi. 763.
-- , John P., credits to be allowed on

Wiltbank, James, account of, to be settled, vi. 640.
Winchester and Potomac Railroad Company, acts respecting, iv. 744, 792.
Windham, Sarah, pension to, vi. 761. Windsor, Richard, land warrant to be issued to,
vi. 66.

judgment against, vi. 138. William, mistake of, in release of
land, to be corrected, vi. 481. Willington, Samuel, pension to, vi. 24. Willink, John Abraham, drawback allowed to,
vi. 368.
Willis, George, to be paid for a boat, vi. 798. -, Henry, Representatives of, allowed to enter land, vi. 246.

Wines, Spirits, and Teas, importation and entry of, i. 658, 659, 660. deposit of, in warehouses, i. 674 ; iii. 469, 515.
fraudulent removal of, iii. 469. obsolete acts respecting, i. 261 , 378. Wing, Moses, increase of pension to, vi. 69. -, Warner, allowance to, for services as clerk, vi. 356.

lots exempted from former grant Wingard, James C., increase of pension to, vi

to, vi. 254.

234.

Lewis B., claim of, allowed, vi. 779. William, increase of pension to, vi. 868. Willmott, Lieutenant Robert, commutation. of half-pay to, vi. 601. Willoby, John, payment to, vi. 185. Wills, Registers of, in District of Columbia, ii . 107.
Wilmarth, Ephraim, pension to, vi. 32. Wilmington, Trustees of Public Grammar School
and Academy, compensation granted for injury to, vi. 8. Wilmot, John, amount of a decree reversed, to be repaid to, vi. 303. Wilson, Alexander, land claim confirmed to, ii. 800 .
Amy, to be paid the pension of her husband, vi. 632.
" Andrew, fishing bounty allowed to, vi. 412.
Cornelius, to be paid for service in militia, vi. 878.
Daniel, payment to, vi. 185. -, Edward, allowed to withdraw his entry for land, vi. 162.

Winnebago Indians, treaty of June 3, 1816, with, vii . 144. August 19, 1825, with, vii. 272. August 11 , 1827, with, vii. 303. August 25, 1828, with, vii. 315. August 1, 1829, with, vii. 323. September 15, 1832, with, vii. 370. November 1, 1837, with, vii. 544.
Winner, James, and others, claim of, to be settled, vi. 345.
Winnisimmet Company, authorized to lay out a certain street, v. 63.
Winsh, Jacob, preemption right allowed to, iv. 57.
Winslett, John, allowance to, for property impressed, vi. 573.
Winslow, George A. , payment to, vi. 889. Isaac and Thomas, allowance to, to
indemnify them, vi . 880. - Jared, pension to, vi. 805.
Winter, Elisha J., compensation for horses allowed to, vi . 121. " Joseph, debentures to be paid to, vi. 187.

George, allowance to , as indemnity for Winton, John, to be paid for land ceded to a

land claim, vi. 396.

Cherokee Indian, vi. 387.

GENERAL INDEX .

121

Virgman, Charles, duties refunded to, vi. 212. Wirt, John T., claim of, to be settled, vi . 160.
-, William, appropriation for representatives of, iv. 691. W sconsin,
territorial government established, v. 10. certain towns laid off in, v. 70, 178. certain acts of, confirmed, v. 198, 247.
disaffirmed, v. 310. division of territory, v. 235. surveyor of lands in, v. 243. two additional land offices in , v. 243.
boundary of, next to Michigan, v. 244 , 407, 435.
seminary of learning, v. 244 . grant for canal in, v. 245 , 328. appropriation for public buildings in, v. 249. certain roads in, v. 303, 328. enactment of laws in, v. 356. settlement of accounts of, v. 540 . election of officers in, v. 630. improvement of Grant River, v. 663. Wise, George, case of, to be removed, vi . 915. - Samuel, Widow or Orphans of, claim for seven years' half-pay to be adjusted, vi. 6. Wiseman, Abraham, allowed to withdraw a land entry, vi. 200.
Caleb, pension to, vi. 417. Wiser, Peter, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 66. Wishart, Thomas, to settle account of, and ad-
ditional pay allowed to, vi. 11. Witchetaw Indians, treaty of August 24, 1835,
with, vii. 474. Witherell, James, claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 717. WitherleeandJarvis, duties to be repaid to, vi. 241 . Withers, Thomas C. , allowance to, for horses,
& c. , vi. 245. " claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 363.
Withington, Lemuel, pension to, vi. 417. Witnesses,
obsolete acts, i . 216, 275, 492. in force, i. 624, 626.
how compelled to attend to give depositions, iv. 197.
pay when imprisoned in criminal cases, iv. 174.
subpoenas for, in what districts to run, i. 335. officers of customs may be, i. 697. removal of, in criminal cases, to the place
of trial, i. 91. in case of contested elections, i. 537. recognizances of, v. 517. before naval courts-martial, i . 714 ; ii. 50. before militia courts-martial , iii. 134.
Wogan, J., and another, land claim confirmed to, vi. 499.
Wolcott, James, payment by mistake to be refunded, vi. 343.
Wolfe, Christian, pension to, vi . 3. - Schooner, released from forfeiture, vi. 88.
Wolfelden, John, pension to, vi. 896. Wolverton, Hiram, and others, allowance to, for
services, vi . 541. Wood, Abiel, Administrator of, judgment
against, to be entered satisfied, vi. 890 . County, land title vested in commission-
ers of, vi. 276. Edmund W., pension to, vi . 364.
--- Irax A., rifle to be delivered to, iv . 195 . --, Jethro, patent right extended to, vi. 486. -, John, pension to, vi. 92.

Wood, John, allowance to, vi . 294. Nathaniel B., claim of, to be settled and
paid, vi. 403 . Sylvanus, pension to, vi. 416. William, increase of pension to , vi. 83.
Woodall, Abraham, authorized to exchange lands, vi. 722.
Wooddy, John, grant of land to, vi. 567. Woodfin, Thomas R., and others, fishing bounty
allowed to, vi. 582.
Woodland, Charles, payment to, vi. 185. Woodmancy, Joseph, increase of pension to, vi. 84. Woodrooff, Clark, purchase money to be refund
ed, vi. 828, 849. Woodruff, William, pension to, vi. 100. Woods, Abel, increase of pension to, vi. 63.
-, Captain John, grant ofland to, vi. 432.
Woodson, Major Tarlton, account of, to be settled and paid, vi. 762. Samuel H., released as security of J. Crockett, vi. 350.
Woodward, John, donation to, vi. 176. Jordan, and others, duties to be re-
funded to, vi . 833.
--, William, and another, patent fees to be refunded to, vi. 636.
Woodworth, Azel, pension to, vi. 25. increase of pension to, vi. 114.
Benjamin, bounties, arrearages, &c., of certain soldiers to be paid to, vi . 357.
Roswell, increase of pension to, vi. 77.
William, patent right extended seven years, vi. 936.
Zeba, increase of pension to, vi. 93. Wool, John E. , exempted from operation of
Stat. 1834, c . 162, vi. 685. Woolen, Thomas, payment to, vi. 184. Woolley, Colonel A. R. , arrearages to be paid to,
vi. 590.
-, Jonathan , increase of pension to, vi . 114. Woolsey, George, authorized to exchange lands,
vi. 680.
Melancthon Taylor, part of pension of, to be retained, vi. 633.
accounts of, to be settled, vi. 713. Woosely, Peter, devises of bounty land, &c ., of, affirmed, vi. 349. Wootten, Lemuel, to be paid for property lost, vi. 325.
Worfington, Richard, land warrant to be issued to, vi. 66.
Work, John, allowance to, for provisions, &c., vi. 214.
Working Days, to unlade ships, i. 669 ; iii. 640. Workman, John S., pension to, vi. 577. Wormstead, Joseph W., and others, bounty al-
lowed to, vi . 633.
Worsham, Jeremiah, certificate for purchase money to issue to, vi. 577.
Worth, Gorham A., released from a bond, vi 898 .
Worthington, Charles, and others, incorporated, vi. 221 . Gad, to be allowed for money robbed from him, vi. 264.
William , increase of pension to, vi. 69.
Wrecked Fishing Vessels, to have bounty, iv. 38. Wrecked Goods,
entry of, iii. 736 ; v. 609. appraisement of, iii . 437.

182

GENERAL INDEX.

Wrecks, duties of consuls as to, i. 255. Wrecks on Florida Coast, provided for, iv. 132,
138, 292. Wren, Woodson, claim of, to be decided upon,
vi. 283. land claim confirmed to, vi.

Wyatt, Thomas, pension to, vi. 112. Wyman, Seth, pension to, vi. 24.
9 increase of pension to, vi. 68. Wynn, William, right of preemption granted to,
vi. 851.

469, 917.

Y.

Wright, Abraham, land warrant to issue to, vi. Yancton Indians, 794.

-, Francis, land warrant to issue to heirs of, vi. 329.

treaty ofJuly 19, 1815, with, vii. 128. June 22, 1825, with, vii. 250. October 15, 1836, with, vii. 524.

John, pension to, vi . 26, 233. continued in office, vi . 1 . settlement of account of, i . 98.

October 21 , 1837, with, vii. 542. Yandez, Peter, to be paid for a horse, vi. 321. Yantis, John, preemption right granted to, vi. 563.

E., pension to, vi. 939.

Yard, James, further time for exportation of

Nahum, pension to, vi . 24.

merchandise allowed to, vi. 39.

William H. D. C. , account of, to be set- Yarnall, John J. , accounts of, to be settled and

tled, vi. 436.

paid, vi. 186.

739.

-, appropriation for, iv. Yates, Charles, Executor of, interest allowed to,

vi. 440.

Wrighter, Jacob, increase of pension to, vi. 158.

Milley, entitled to grant of land, vi. 769

Writs,

Yazoo Land Claims, indemnification of holders

of habeas corpus, i. 81, 82.

of, iii. 116, 192, 235, 294.

mandamus, i . 81 .

Year, Fiscal, established , v. 536.

prohibition, i. 81 . ne exeat and injunction , i . 334.

Yeates, Charles, Executor of, payment to be made to, vi. 392.

scire facias, i . 81 ; ii. 89.

interest allowed

subpoena, i . 335 ; iv. 197.

to, vi. 440.

venire facias, i . 88.

Yeomans, Martha, Widow of John, allowance

provision respecting, in obsolete judiciary

to, vi. 444.

act of 1801 , ii . 89. fees for service of, i. 276, 624.

Yonge, William P., extra duty to be refunded to, vi. 335.

See Process, p. 141 . in what district served, i. 83.

York, Charles, released as surety of S. Holmes, vi. 840.

in what districts to run in favor of United

John, to be discharged from prison, vi. 57.

States, i. 515. when to be served by marshal, i. 87.

Sawney, payment to representatives of, vi 738.

when not, i. 87, 88.

Young, Alexander, duties to be refunded to rep-

of subpoena, i. 335. regulations and forms of, i. 93, 123, 275, 276. how tested, i. 93, 123, 275, 276.

resentative of, vi. 359.
, Anna, seven years' half-pay allowed to, vi. 110.

Writs of Error,

Harrison and Benjamin, and another,

regulation of, i. 84, 85, 278, 404. from district courts, i. 84, 85.

land claim confirmed to, vi . 913.

from circuit courts, i. 84, 85. from state courts, i . 84 ; iii. 244, 245.

, James, grant of land to, vi. 613. -, land claim confirmed to heirs of.
vi. 890.

when a supersedeas, i. 85. limitation of, i . 85.

Jesse, pension to, vi. 154. , John, increase of pension to, vi. 158.

Wunder, George, pension to, vi . 416. Wurtemburg, convention of April 10, 1844,

-, Moses, to be paid for services, vi . 55 . to be paid as secretary of lega-

with, for mutual abrogation of droit d'au-

tion, vi. 89.

baine and taxes on emigration, viii. 588.

William, claim of, to be settled and

Wyandot County, Ohio, authorized to enter

paid, vi. 172.

land, vi. 936.

Younglove, John, pension to, vi. 3.

Wyandots, Indians,

treaty of January 21 , 1785, with, vii. 16.

January 9, 1789, with, vii. 28.

Z.

August 3, 1795, with, vii. 49.

August 7, 1803, with, vii . 77. July 4, 1805, with, vii. 87. November 17, 1807 , with , vii. 105. November 25, 1808, with, vii. 112.

Zane, Ebenezer, grant of land to, vi. 27. - Isaac, grant of lands to, vi. 46.
Zachary, James W. , released from a judgment, vi. 510.

July 22, 1814, with, vii. 118. September 8, 1815, with, vii. 131 . September 29, 1817, with, vii. 160. September 17, 1818, with, vii. 178. September 20, 1818 , with, vii. 180. January 19, 1832 , with, vii. 364. April 23, 1836, with, vii. 502. March 17, 1842, with . vii. 607. rescrvation of land for, iv. 75.

Zantzinger,William P., credit allowed to, vi. 535. lost, vi. 605. " allowance to, for stores allowance to, for stores thrown overboard, vi. 933.
Zeabold, John, pension of, to be paid to his mother, vi. 294.
Zimmerman, Jacob, pension to, vi. 417.

